############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Published by National Institute for Materials Science in partnership with Taylor & Francis.Nanoparticles (NPs) elicit various physiological responses in cellular environment, and the effect of NPs on cell migration is of high interest. In this work, the effects of NPs on cell migration and their possible mechanisms were studied. Here, we showed that after exposure to pegylated titanium dioxide nanoparticles (TiO2-PEG NPs, where PEG stands for the polyethylene glycol), NCI-H292 cells exhibited slower migration than control cells. Furthermore, larger NPs inhibited cell migration much stronger than smaller NPs. Following NP exposure, the cells showed decreased expression of integrin beta 1 and phosphorylated focal adhesion kinase (pFAK), and disrupted F-actin structures. We demonstrated that a possible mechanism involved NP-mediated promotion of the lysosomal degradation of integrin beta 1, thus leading to reduced expression of pFAK and cytoskeletal disruption and inhibited cell migration. Therefore, our results showed that inhibition of NCI-H292 cell migration by NPs is mediated through integrin beta 1, which provides useful information for the application of NPs in cancer therapy and related fields.
Influence of emulsified or non-emulsified common carp roe oil (CRO) and carp defatted roe hydrolysate (CDRH) on properties of crucian carp (Carassius auratus) sausages was determined during 30-day storage at 4°C. Sausages containing CRO and CDRH were lighter and had better textural properties including hardness, gumminess, and chewiness. These textural attributes were significantly higher in the sample prepared with pre-emulsified CRO and 7 g/100 g CDRH (p < 0.05). The sausages fortified with CDRH also presented better microstructure, as evidenced by fewer voids and smaller oil droplets. When incorporated at 7 g/100 g, CDRH could significantly reduce microbial spoilage in sausages in terms of the total viable count and the psychrophilic bacterial count (p < 0.05); however, pre-emulsification had no significant effect on antibacterial activity of hydrolysate in the samples (p > 0.05). Sausages with pre-emulsified roe oil and 7 g/100 g hydrolysate were more resistant against lipid oxidation and had a higher level of polyunsaturated fatty acids, especially docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid after 30 days of storage at 4°C. Furthermore, the sausages with pre-emulsified CRO and 7 g/100 g CDRH exhibited better organoleptic properties at day 30.
Separation of proteins from a complex multi-component suspension of broken down cells is technically challenging. In this regard, a technique that is capable of distinguishing proteins from other major cellular components (such as carbohydrates, lipids, and other cellular debris) could immensely simplify downstream processing. In this work, we report the ability to use the inherent zwitterionic properties of proteins to latch amphiphilic cationic electrolytes on to protein surfaces so that proteins can be extracted from an aqueous suspension into a water-immiscible organic solvent. Here we show the separation of egg albumin (a model protein) from an aqueous suspension to adjacent hexane phase using poly-(diallyl dimethyl ammonium) chloride (PolyDADMAC). Results show that, under optimum pH and polyelectrolyte concentrations, proteins can be successfully migrated from water to the adjacent hexane phase. The amount and molecular weight of electrolyte, and solution pH played vital roles in determining the amount of protein that could be migrated. Low molecular weight polyelectrolyte under neutral pH conditions, low equilibration time and 1:2 hexane: water ratio favored highest protein separation (∼85% dry weight). FTIR studies indicated that the secondary structure of the protein was preserved after migration of the protein from the aqueous phase to solvent under the protection of the polyelectrolyte coating. The results suggest that ionic electrolytes with hydrophobic moieties could be used as molecular transport vehicles to safely separate proteins from a bulk aqueous phase to an immiscible solvent phase.
Membrane fouling represents one of the greatest challenges for widespread applications of polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membranes. This study proposed a new strategy regarding grafting hydroxyethyl acrylate (HEA) via γ ray radiation to improve the antifouling ability of PVDF membranes. The grafted membrane possessed improved antifouling ability for filtration of sodium alginate (SA) solution which was experimentally evidenced by the 92.03% flux recovery ratio (69.68% for the pristine membrane) and 11.54% irreversible fouling ratio (32.76% for the pristine membrane). When subjected to filtration of bovine serum protein (BSA) solution, the grafted membrane showed lower flux decline rate than the pristine membrane, and interestingly, higher BSA solution flux than pure water flux. Thermodynamic analyses indicated that the improved hydrophilicity and the reduced strength of thermodynamic interactions between the grafted membrane and foulants were mainly responsible for the improved antifouling performance. Meanwhile, thermodynamic swelling process affected by ionic strength induced higher BSA solution flux than pure water flux. The revealed thermodynamic mechanisms facilitated to optimize the grafting strategy. This study not only proposed a grafting strategy, but also provided interesting PVDF membranes whose flux can be adjusted by ionic strength, giving important implications for membrane fouling research.
Quercetin is proven to have anticancer effects for many cancers. However, the role of tumor suppressor p53 on quercetin’s radiosensitization and regulation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress response in this process remains obscure. Here, quercetin exposure resulted in ER stress, prolonged DNA repair, and the expression of p53 protein; phosphorylation on serine 15 and 20 increased in combination with X-irradiation. Quercetin pretreatment could potentiate radiation-induced cell death. The combination of irradiation and quercetin treatment aggravated DNA damages and caused typical apoptotic cell death; as well the expression of Bax and p21 elevated and the expression of Bcl-2 decreased. Knocking down of p53 could reverse all the above effects under quercetin in combination with radiation. In addition, quercetin-induced radiosensitization was through stimulation of ATM phosphorylation. In human ovarian cancer xenograft model, combined treatment of quercetin and radiation significantly restrained the growth of tumors, accompanied with the activation of p53, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein homologous protein, and γ-H2AX. Overall, these results indicated that quercetin acted as a promising radiosensitizer through p53-dependent ER stress signals.
Microtubule dynamics play a critical role in the normal physiology of eukaryotic cells, as well as a number of cancers and neurodegenerative disorders. The polymerization/depolymerization of microtubules is regulated by a variety of stabilizing and destabilizing factors, including microtubule-associated proteins and therapeutic agents (e.g., paclitaxel, nocodazole). Here we describe the ability of the osmolytes polyethylene glycol (PEG) and trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) to inhibit the depolymerization of individual microtubule filaments for extended periods of time (up to 30 days). We further show that PEG stabilizes microtubules against both temperature- and calcium-induced depolymerization. Our results collectively sug-gest that the observed inhibition may be related to combination of the kosmotropic behavior and excluded volume/osmotic pressure effects associated with PEG and TMAO. Taken together with prior studies, our data suggest that the physiochemi-cal properties of the local environment can regulate microtubule depolymerization, and may potentially play an important role in in vivo microtubule dynamics.
Purpose: The aim of this study was to generate a novel miRNA expression signature to accurately predict prognosis for patients with lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Patients and methods: Using expression profiles downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas database, we identified multiple miRNAs with differential expression between LUAD and paired healthy tissues. We then evaluated the prognostic values of the differentially expressed miRNAs using univariate/multivariate Cox regression analysis. This analysis was ultimately used to construct a four-miRNA signature that effectively predicted patient survival. Finally, we analyzed potential functional roles of the target genes for these four miRNAs using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses. Results: Based on our cutoff criteria (P<0.05 and |log2FC| >1.0), we identified a total of 187 differentially expressed miRNAs, including 148 that were upregulated in LUAD tissues and 39 that were downregulated. Four miRNAs (miR-148a-5p, miR-31-5p, miR-548v, and miR-550a-5p) were independently associated with survival based on Kaplan–Meier analysis. We generated a signature index based on the expression of these four miRNAs and stratified patients into low- and high-risk groups. Patients in the high-risk group had significantly shorter survival times than those in the low-risk group (P=0.002). A functional enrichment analysis suggested that the target genes of these four miRNAs were involved in protein phosphorylation and the Hippo and sphingolipid signaling pathways. Conclusion: Taken together, our results suggest that our four-miRNA signature can be used as a prognostic tool for patients with LUAD.
Background and aims: Octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT4) has been implicated in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), although the findings are controversial. We conducted a meta-analysis to assess the correlation between OCT4 and the clinicopathological characteristics and the prognostic value in HCC. Methods: An electronic search for relevant articles was conducted in PubMed, Cochrane Library, Web of Science, EMBASE database, Chinese CNKI, and Chinese WanFang database. Correlations between OCT4 expression and clinicopathological features and survival outcomes were analyzed. Pooled odds ratios and hazard ratios with 95% CIs were calculated using STATA 14.2 software. Results: A total of 10 trials with 985 patients were included. Positive OCT4 expression was correlated with tumor size, tumor numbers, differentiation, and TNM stage. OCT4 expression was not correlated with gender, age, hepatitis B surface antigen, alfa-fetoprotein, liver cirrhosis, vascular invasion, or tumor encapsulation. OCT4 expression was associated with poor 3- and 5-year overall survival, and disease-free survival rate. Conclusion: OCT4 expression was associated with tumor size, tumor numbers, differentiation, and TNM stage in HCC. OCT4 may be a useful prognostic biomarker for HCC.
This study aimed to analyze epigenetically and genetically altered genes in melanoma to get a better understanding of the molecular circuitry of melanoma and identify potential gene targets for the treatment of melanoma. The microarray data of GSE31879, including mRNA expression profiles (seven melanoma and four melanocyte samples) and DNA methylation profiles (seven melanoma and five melanocyte samples), were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially methylated positions (DMPs) were screened using the linear models for microarray data (limma) package in melanoma compared with melanocyte samples. Gene ontology (GO) and pathway enrichment analysis of the DEGs were carried out using the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery. Moreover, differentially methylated genes (DMGs) were identified, and a transcriptional regulatory network was constructed using the University of California Santa Cruz genome browser database. A total of 1,215 DEGs (199 upregulated and 1,016 downregulated) and 14,094 DMPs (10,450 upregulated and 3,644 downregulated) were identified in melanoma compared with melanocyte samples. Additionally, the upregulated and downregulated DEGs were significantly associated with different GO terms and pathways, such as pigment cell differentiation, biosynthesis, and metabolism. Furthermore, the transcriptional regulatory network showed that DMGs such as Aristaless-related homeobox (ARX), damage-specific DNA binding protein 2 (DDB2), and myelin basic protein (MBP) had higher node degrees. Our results showed that several methylated genes (ARX, DDB2, and MBP) may be involved in melanoma progression.
Background: A number of studies have investigated the roles of excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1) gene rs3212986 polymorphisms as potential biomarkers in gastric cancer (GC). However, the results were inconsistent. Here, we performed a meta-analysis to explore ERCC1 rs3212986 polymorphisms in the chemotherapy response and clinical outcome of GC. Methods: PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science were searched up to July 28, 2017, for studies on the association between ERCC1 rs3212986 A/C polymorphisms and response to chemotherapy as well as overall survival time of GC. A fixed-effect or random-effect model was used to calculate the pooled odds ratios (ORs) based on the results from the heterogeneity tests. Results: The result revealed that there was no significant association between the ERCC1 rs3212986 A/C polymorphism and response to chemotherapy in GC under comparison models (AA + CA versus CC, OR 0.95, P=0.80, AA versus CA, OR 0.85, P=0.55, AA versus CC, OR 0.74, P=0.47). Further identification suggested that ERCC1 rs3212986 A/C polymorphisms were not linked with the overall survival of GC (AA + CA versus CC, OR 1.09, P=0.52, AA versus CA, OR 1.05, P=0.85, AA versus CC, OR 1.43, P=0.23). Conclusion: Our meta-analysis indicated that the ERCC1 rs3212986 A/C polymorphism was not associated with response to chemotherapy or overall survival time in GC. Well-designed studies with larger sample sizes and more ethnic groups should be performed to further validate our results.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterized by an abnormal inflammatory response in the lungs caused by the inhalation of noxious particles and gases. The airway epithelium has a protective function against these harmful agents by maintaining a physical barrier and by secreting defensive proteins, such as bactericidal/permeability-increasing fold-containing (BPIF) proteins, BPIFA1 and BPIFB1. However, inconsistent data regarding BPIFA1 expression in smokers and COPD patients have been reported to date. Therefore, we investigated the expression of BPIFA1 and BPIFB1 in a large cohort of never-smokers and smokers with and without COPD, both on the messenger RNA (mRNA) level in lung tissue and on the protein level in airway epithelium. Furthermore, we examined the correlation between BPIFA1 and BPIFB1 levels, goblet cell hyperplasia, and lung function measurements. BPIFA1 and BPIFB1 mRNA expressions were significantly increased in stage III–IV COPD patients compared with stage II COPD patients and subjects without COPD. In addition, protein levels in COPD patients were significantly increased in comparison with subjects without COPD. BPIFA1 and BPIFB1 levels were inversely correlated with measurements of airflow limitation and positively correlated with goblet cell hyperplasia. In addition, by the use of immunofluorescence double staining, we demonstrated the expression of BPIFB1 in goblet cells. In conclusion, we show that BPIFA1 and BPIFB1 levels are elevated in COPD patients and correlate with disease severity.
The aim of this research was to gather preliminary data about the potential inhibitory effects of commercial diets on the protease activities of meagre larvae using in vitro techniques. Four commercial diets (Gemma Micro 150 (100-200 μm), Caviar (200-300 μm), Caviar (300-500 μm) and Perla Larva Proactive 4.0 (300-500 μm)) were tested in this study. The differences in the protease activities of meagre larvae during the sampling period were statistically significant (p <.05). The highest and lowest protease activities of meagre larvae were 393.97 ± 7.9 U/mg protein (7 DAH) and 9.64 ± 1.25 U/mg protein (20 DAH), respectively. The digestive proteases of meagre larvae showed the greatest sensitivity to protease inhibitors present in Gemma Micro 150 (100-200 μm). In conclusion, Caviar (200-300 μm), Caviar (300-500 μm) and Perla Larva Proactive 4.0 (300-500 μm) are moderately advisable as the commercial diets in the feeding protocol of meagre larvae from 15 to 32 DAH except for more than 50% inhibitions, but not Gemma Micro 150 (100-200 μm).
Aim: Acute appendicitis is the most common cause of abdominal surgical emergencies. Early diagnosis of appendicitis can reduce perforation andmortality rate. High-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) protein has been identified as a pro-inflammatory factor and its elevated serumlevels have been noted in different diseases. So, the aim of this study was to determine the serumlevels ofHMGB1 in patients with acute and perforated appendicitis in compare to normal appendix. Material and methods: For this purpose, serum samples were obtained from 81 patients with primary criteria-based appendicitis 6 hr before and 72 hr after appendectomy, in which serum levels of HMGB1 were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results: The levels of HMGB1 in patients with perforated appendicitis were significantly (p = .045) higher than in patients with acute appendicitis and normal appendix (p = .001) before appendectomy. Serum levels of HMGB1 were increased 72 hr after appendectomy in all the groups (p = .03) compared with the serum levels before appendectomy. Conclusions: Since the serum levels of HMGB1 in patients with acute and perforated appendicitis were higher than in patients with normal appendix, these findings could be useful to develop a new biomarker along with other laboratory tests for accurate diagnosis of patients with appendicitis.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Several MTases involved in gene expression and regulation are catalytically inefficient when isolated, and their catalytic domains often show inhibitory active site architectures. Recently reported structures of complexes that more closely reflect biological context have begun to reveal the structural basis of activation. DNA and particular histone MTases are allosterically activated by binding histone modifications using reader domains or separate reader proteins, and some MTases operating beyond chromatin are activated by binding an activator protein. In this review, we describe the structural status of the human methyltransferome and then discuss newly revealed structural mechanisms of MTase activation.
Cell-to-cell transmission of misfolded proteins propagates proteotoxic stress in multicellular organisms when transmitted polypeptides serve as a seeding template to cause protein misfolding in recipient cells, but how misfolded proteins are released from cells to initiate this process is unclear. Misfolding-associated protein secretion (MAPS) is an unconventional protein-disposing mechanism that specifically exports misfolded cytosolic proteins including various neurodegenerative disease-causing proteins. Here we establish the HSC70 co-chaperone DNAJC5 as an essential mediator of MAPS. USP19, a previously uncovered MAPS regulator binds HSC70 and acts upstream of HSC70 and DNAJC5. We further show that as a membrane-associated protein localized preferentially to late endosomes and lysosomes, DNAJC5 can chaperone MAPS client proteins to the cell exterior. Intriguingly, upon secretion, misfolded proteins can be taken up through endocytosis and eventually degraded in the lysosome. Collectively, these findings suggest a transcellular protein quality control regulatory pathway in which a deubiquitinase-chaperone axis forms a "triaging hub", transferring aberrant polypeptides from stressed cells to healthy ones for disposal.
Kinetochores that are not attached to microtubules prevent chromosome missegregation via the spindle assembly checkpoint. We show that they also promote their own capturing. Similar to what governs the localization of spindle assembly checkpoint proteins, the phosphorylation of Spc105 by Mps1 allows unattached kinetochores to sequester Stu1 in cooperation with Slk19. The withdrawal of Stu1, a CLASP essential for spindle integrity, from microtubules and attached kinetochores disrupts the organization of the spindle and thus allows the enhanced formation of dynamic random microtubules that span the nucleus and are ideal to capture unattached kinetochores. The enhanced formation of nuclear random microtubules does not occur if Stu1 sequestering to unattached kinetochores fails and the spindle remains uncompromised. Consequently, these cells exhibit a severely decreased capturing efficiency. After the capturing event, Stu1 is relocated to the capturing microtubule and prevents precocious microtubule depolymerization as long as kinetochores are laterally or incompletely end-on attached.
Topologically associating domain (TAD) boundaries in flies seem to be different from those in mammals. Here, the authors use Hi-C with sub-kb resolution to identify about 4000 TADs in flies, most demarcated by the insulator complexes BEAF-32/CP190 or BEAF-32/Chromator like CTCF/cohesin in mammals.
Understanding the intricacies of telomerase regulation is crucial due to the potential health benefits of modifying its activity. Telomerase is composed of an RNA component and reverse transcriptase. However, additional factors required during biogenesis vary between species. Here we have identified fission yeast Lar7 as a member of the conserved LARP7 family, which includes the Tetrahymena telomerase-binding protein p65 and human LARP7. We show that Lar7 has conserved RNA-recognition motifs, which bind telomerase RNA to protect it from exosomal degradation. In addition, Lar7 is required to stabilise the association of telomerase RNA with the protective complex LSm2-8, and telomerase reverse transcriptase. Lar7 remains a component of the mature telomerase complex and is required for telomerase localisation to the telomere. Collectively, we demonstrate that Lar7 is a crucial player in fission yeast telomerase biogenesis, similarly to p65 in Tetrahymena, and highlight the LARP7 family as a conserved factor in telomere maintenance.
Effective suppression of JAK-STAT signalling by the inducible inhibitor "suppressor of cytokine signalling 3" (SOCS3) is essential for limiting signalling from cytokine receptors. Here we show that cavin-1, a component of caveolae, is a functionally significant SOCS3-interacting protein. Biochemical and confocal imaging demonstrate that SOCS3 localisation to the plasma membrane requires cavin-1. SOCS3 is also critical for cavin-1 stabilisation, such that deletion of SOCS3 reduces the expression of cavin-1 and caveolin-1 proteins, thereby reducing caveola abundance in endothelial cells. Moreover, the interaction of cavin-1 and SOCS3 is essential for SOCS3 function, as loss of cavin-1 enhances cytokine-stimulated STAT3 phosphorylation and abolishes SOCS3-dependent inhibition of IL-6 signalling by cyclic AMP. Together, these findings reveal a new functionally important mechanism linking SOCS3-mediated inhibition of cytokine signalling to localisation at the plasma membrane via interaction with and stabilisation of cavin-1.
Acquisition of mutations is central to evolution; however, the detrimental effects of most mutations on protein folding and stability limit protein evolvability. Molecular chaperones, which suppress aggregation and facilitate polypeptide folding, may alleviate the effects of destabilizing mutations thus promoting sequence diversification. To illuminate how chaperones can influence protein evolution, we examined the effect of reduced activity of the chaperone Hsp90 on poliovirus evolution. We find that Hsp90 offsets evolutionary trade-offs between protein stability and aggregation. Lower chaperone levels favor variants of reduced hydrophobicity and protein aggregation propensity but at a cost to protein stability. Notably, reducing Hsp90 activity also promotes clusters of codon-deoptimized synonymous mutations at inter-domain boundaries, likely to facilitate cotranslational domain folding. Our results reveal how a chaperone can shape the sequence landscape at both the protein and RNA levels to harmonize competing constraints posed by protein stability, aggregation propensity, and translation rate on successful protein biogenesis.
Gram-negative bacteria depend on energised protein complexes that connect the two membranes of the cell envelope. However, β-barrel outer-membrane proteins (OMPs) and α-helical inner-membrane proteins (IMPs) display quite different organisation. OMPs cluster into islands that restrict their lateral mobility, while IMPs generally diffuse throughout the cell. Here, using live cell imaging of Escherichia coli, we demonstrate that when transient, energy-dependent transmembrane connections are formed, IMPs become subjugated by the inherent organisation of OMPs and that such connections impact IMP function. We show that while establishing a translocon for import, the colicin ColE9 sequesters the IMPs of the proton motive force (PMF)-linked Tol-Pal complex into islands mirroring those of colicin-bound OMPs. Through this imposed organisation, the bacteriocin subverts the outer-membrane stabilising role of Tol-Pal, blocking its recruitment to cell division sites and slowing membrane constriction. The ordering of IMPs by OMPs via an energised inter-membrane bridge represents an emerging functional paradigm in cell envelope biology.
During the Hsp90-mediated chaperoning of protein kinases, the core components of the machinery, Hsp90 and the cochaperone Cdc37, recycle between different phosphorylation states that regulate progression of the chaperone cycle. We show that Cdc37 phosphorylation at Y298 results in partial unfolding of the C-terminal domain and the population of folding intermediates. Unfolding facilitates Hsp90 phosphorylation at Y197 by unmasking a phosphopeptide sequence, which serves as a docking site to recruit non-receptor tyrosine kinases to the chaperone complex via their SH2 domains. In turn, Hsp90 phosphorylation at Y197 specifically regulates its interaction with Cdc37 and thus affects the chaperoning of only protein kinase clients. In summary, we find that by providing client class specificity, Hsp90 cochaperones such as Cdc37 do not merely assist in client recruitment but also shape the post-translational modification landscape of Hsp90 in a client class-specific manner.
Isoprenylated proteins are associated with membranes and their inter-compartmental distribution is regulated by solubilization factors, which incorporate lipid moieties in hydrophobic cavities and thereby facilitate free diffusion during trafficking. Here we report the crystal structure of a solubilization factor, the prenyl-binding protein (PrBP/δ), at 1.81 Å resolution in its ligand-free apo-form. Apo-PrBP/δ harbors a preshaped, deep hydrophobic cavity, capacitating apo-PrBP/δ to readily bind its prenylated cargo. To investigate the molecular mechanism of cargo solubilization we analyzed the PrBP/δ-induced membrane dissociation of rod photoreceptor phosphodiesterase (PDE6). The results suggest that PrBP/δ exclusively interacts with the soluble fraction of PDE6. Depletion of soluble species in turn leads to dissociation of membrane-bound PDE6, as both are in equilibrium. This "solubilization by depletion" mechanism of PrBP/δ differs from the extraction of prenylated proteins by the similar folded solubilization factor RhoGDI, which interacts with membrane bound cargo via an N-Terminal structural element lacking in PrBP/δ.
Checkpoint kinases sense replicative stress to prevent DNA damage. Here we show that the histone deacetylases HDAC1/HDAC2 sustain the phosphorylation of the checkpoint kinases ATM, CHK1 and CHK2, activity of the cell cycle gatekeeper kinases WEE1 and CDK1, and induction of the tumour suppressor p53 in response to stalled DNA replication. Consequently, HDAC inhibition upon replicative stress promotes mitotic catastrophe. Mechanistically, HDAC1 and HDAC2 suppress the expression of PPP2R3A/PR130, a regulatory subunit of the trimeric serine/threonine phosphatase 2 (PP2A). Genetic elimination of PR130 reveals that PR130 promotes dephosphorylation of ATM by PP2A. Moreover, the ablation of PR130 slows G1/S phase transition and increases the levels of phosphorylated CHK1, replication protein A foci and DNA damage upon replicative stress. Accordingly, stressed PR130 null cells are very susceptible to HDAC inhibition, which abrogates the S phase checkpoint, induces apoptosis and reduces the homologous recombination protein RAD51. Thus, PR130 controls cell fate decisions upon replicative stress.
The simultaneous improvement of grain quality and yield of cereal crops is a major challenge for modern agriculture. Here we show that a rice grain yield quantitative trait locus qLGY3 encodes a MADS-domain transcription factor OsMADS1, which acts as a key downstream effector of G-protein βγ dimers. The presence of an alternatively spliced protein OsMADS1lgy3 is shown to be associated with formation of long and slender grains, resulting in increases in both grain quality and yield potential of rice. The Gγ subunits GS3 and DEP1 interact directly with the conserved keratin-like domain of MADS transcription factors, function as cofactors to enhance OsMADS1 transcriptional activity and promote the co-operative transactivation of common target genes, thereby regulating grain size and shape. We also demonstrate that combining OsMADS1 lgy3 allele with high-yield-associated dep1-1 and gs3 alleles represents an effective strategy for simultaneously improving both the productivity and end-use quality of rice.
Using real-time TIRF microscopy imaging, we identify sites of clathrin and dynamin-independent CLIC/GEEC (CG) endocytic vesicle formation. This allows spatio-temporal localisation of known molecules affecting CG endocytosis; GBF1 (a GEF for ARF1), ARF1 and CDC42 which appear sequentially over 60 s, preceding scission. In an RNAi screen for BAR domain proteins affecting CG endocytosis, IRSp53 and PICK1, known interactors of CDC42 and ARF1, respectively, were selected. Removal of IRSp53, a negative curvature sensing protein, abolishes CG endocytosis. Furthermore, the identification of ARP2/3 complex at CG endocytic sites, maintained in an inactive state reveals a function for PICK1, an ARP2/3 inhibitor. The spatio-temporal sequence of the arrival and disappearance of the molecules suggest a mechanism for a clathrin and dynamin-independent endocytic process. Coincident with the loss of PICK1 by GBF1-activated ARF1, CDC42 recruitment leads to the activation of IRSp53 and the ARP2/3 complex, resulting in a burst of F-actin polymerisation potentially powering scission.
G protein-independent, arrestin-dependent signaling is a paradigm that broadens the signaling scope of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) beyond G proteins for numerous biological processes. However, arrestin signaling in the collective absence of functional G proteins has never been demonstrated. Here we achieve a state of "zero functional G" at the cellular level using HEK293 cells depleted by CRISPR/Cas9 technology of the Gs/q/12 families of Gα proteins, along with pertussis toxin-mediated inactivation of Gi/o. Together with HEK293 cells lacking β-arrestins ("zero arrestin"), we systematically dissect G protein- from arrestin-driven signaling outcomes for a broad set of GPCRs. We use biochemical, biophysical, label-free whole-cell biosensing and ERK phosphorylation to identify four salient features for all receptors at "zero functional G": arrestin recruitment and internalization, but - unexpectedly - complete failure to activate ERK and whole-cell responses. These findings change our understanding of how GPCRs function and in particular of how they activate ERK1/2.
Protein ubiquitylation regulates diverse cellular processes via distinct ubiquitin chains that differ by linkage type and length. However, a comprehensive method for measuring these properties has not been developed. Here we describe a method for assessing the length of substrate-attached polyubiquitin chains, "ubiquitin chain protection from trypsinization (Ub-ProT)." Using Ub-ProT, we found that most ubiquitylated substrates in yeast-soluble lysate are attached to chains of up to seven ubiquitin molecules. Inactivation of the ubiquitin-selective chaperone Cdc48 caused a dramatic increase in chain lengths on substrate proteins, suggesting that Cdc48 complex terminates chain elongation by substrate extraction. In mammalian cells, we found that ligand-activated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is rapidly modified with K63-linked tetra- to hexa-ubiquitin chains following EGF treatment in human cells. Thus, the Ub-ProT method can contribute to our understanding of mechanisms regulating physiological ubiquitin chain lengths and composition.
Adult neural stem cells (NSCs) reside in a specialized microenvironment, the subventricular zone (SVZ), which provides them with unique signaling cues to control their basic properties and prevent their exhaustion. While the signaling mechanisms that regulate NSC lineage progression are well characterized, the molecular mechanisms that trigger the activation of quiescent NSCs during homeostasis and tissue repair are still unclear. Here, we uncovered that the NSC quiescent state is maintained by Rho-GTPase Cdc42, a downstream target of non-canonical Wnt signaling. Mechanistically, activation of Cdc42 induces expression of molecules involved in stem cell identity and anchorage to the niche. Strikingly, during a demyelination injury, downregulation of non-canonical Wnt-dependent Cdc42 activity is necessary to promote activation and lineage progression of quiescent NSCs, thereby initiating the process of tissue repair.
Muscle development requires the coordinated activities of specific protein folding and degradation factors. UFD-2, a U-box ubiquitin ligase, has been reported to play a central role in this orchestra regulating the myosin chaperone UNC-45. Here, we apply an integrative in vitro and in vivo approach to delineate the substrate-targeting mechanism of UFD-2 and elucidate its distinct mechanistic features as an E3/E4 enzyme. Using Caenorhabditis elegans as model system, we demonstrate that UFD-2 is not regulating the protein levels of UNC-45 in muscle cells, but rather shows the characteristic properties of a bona fide E3 ligase involved in protein quality control. Our data demonstrate that UFD-2 preferentially targets unfolded protein segments. Moreover, the UNC-45 chaperone can serve as an adaptor protein of UFD-2 to poly-ubiquitinate unfolded myosin, pointing to a possible role of the UFD-2/UNC-45 pair in maintaining proteostasis in muscle cells.
Many non-histone proteins are lysine methylated and a novel function of this modification is to trigger the proteolysis of methylated proteins. Here, we report that the methylated lysine 142 of DNMT1, a major DNA methyltransferase that preserves epigenetic inheritance of DNA methylation patterns during DNA replication, is demethylated by LSD1. A novel methyl-binding protein, L3MBTL3, binds the K142-methylated DNMT1 and recruits a novel CRL4DCAF5 ubiquitin ligase to degrade DNMT1. Both LSD1 and PHF20L1 act primarily in S phase to prevent DNMT1 degradation by L3MBTL3-CRL4DCAF5. Mouse L3MBTL3/MBT-1 deletion causes accumulation of DNMT1 protein, increased genomic DNA methylation, and late embryonic lethality. DNMT1 contains a consensus methylation motif shared by many non-histone proteins including E2F1, a key transcription factor for S phase. We show that the methylation-dependent E2F1 degradation is also controlled by L3MBTL3-CRL4DCAF5. Our studies elucidate for the first time a novel mechanism by which the stability of many methylated non-histone proteins are regulated.
Pex1 and Pex6 form a heterohexameric motor essential for peroxisome biogenesis and function, and mutations in these AAA-ATPases cause most peroxisome-biogenesis disorders in humans. The tail-anchored protein Pex15 recruits Pex1/Pex6 to the peroxisomal membrane, where it performs an unknown function required for matrix-protein import. Here we determine that Pex1/Pex6 from S. cerevisiae is a protein translocase that unfolds Pex15 in a pore-loop-dependent and ATP-hydrolysis-dependent manner. Our structural studies of Pex15 in isolation and in complex with Pex1/Pex6 illustrate that Pex15 binds the N-terminal domains of Pex6, before its C-terminal disordered region engages with the pore loops of the motor, which then processively threads Pex15 through the central pore. Furthermore, Pex15 directly binds the cargo receptor Pex5, linking Pex1/Pex6 to other components of the peroxisomal import machinery. Our results thus support a role of Pex1/Pex6 in mechanical unfolding of peroxins or their extraction from the peroxisomal membrane during matrix-protein import.
Eya genes encode a unique family of multifunctional proteins that serve as transcriptional co-activators and as haloacid dehalogenase-family Tyr phosphatases. Intriguingly, the N-terminal domain of Eyas, which does not share sequence similarity to any known phosphatases, contains a separable Ser/Thr phosphatase activity. Here, we demonstrate that the Ser/Thr phosphatase activity of Eya is not intrinsic, but arises from its direct interaction with the protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A)-B55α holoenzyme. Importantly, Eya3 alters the regulation of c-Myc by PP2A, increasing c-Myc stability by enabling PP2A-B55α to dephosphorylate pT58, in direct contrast to the previously described PP2A-B56α-mediated dephosphorylation of pS62 and c-Myc destabilization. Furthermore, Eya3 and PP2A-B55α promote metastasis in a xenograft model of breast cancer, opposing the canonical tumor suppressive function of PP2A-B56α. Our study identifies Eya3 as a regulator of PP2A, a major cellular Ser/Thr phosphatase, and uncovers a mechanism of controlling the stability of a critical oncogene, c-Myc.
Transition from pluripotency to differentiation is a pivotal yet poorly understood developmental step. Here, we show that the tumour suppressor RASSF1A is a key player driving the early specification of cell fate. RASSF1A acts as a natural barrier to stem cell self-renewal and iPS cell generation, by switching YAP from an integral component in the β-catenin-TCF pluripotency network to a key factor that promotes differentiation. We demonstrate that epigenetic regulation of the Rassf1A promoter maintains stemness by allowing a quaternary association of YAP-TEAD and β-catenin-TCF3 complexes on the Oct4 distal enhancer. However, during differentiation, promoter demethylation allows GATA1-mediated RASSF1A expression which prevents YAP from contributing to the TEAD/β-catenin-TCF3 complex. Simultaneously, we find that RASSF1A promotes a YAP-p73 transcriptional programme that enables differentiation. Together, our findings demonstrate that RASSF1A mediates transcription factor selection of YAP in stem cells, thereby acting as a functional "switch" between pluripotency and initiation of differentiation.
The R2TP/Prefoldin-like co-chaperone, in concert with HSP90, facilitates assembly and cellular stability of RNA polymerase II, and complexes of PI3-kinase-like kinases such as mTOR. However, the mechanism by which this occurs is poorly understood. Here we use cryo-EM and biochemical studies on the human R2TP core (RUVBL1-RUVBL2-RPAP3-PIH1D1) which reveal the distinctive role of RPAP3, distinguishing metazoan R2TP from the smaller yeast equivalent. RPAP3 spans both faces of a single RUVBL ring, providing an extended scaffold that recruits clients and provides a flexible tether for HSP90. A 3.6 Å cryo-EM structure reveals direct interaction of a C-terminal domain of RPAP3 and the ATPase domain of RUVBL2, necessary for human R2TP assembly but absent from yeast. The mobile TPR domains of RPAP3 map to the opposite face of the ring, associating with PIH1D1, which mediates client protein recruitment. Thus, RPAP3 provides a flexible platform for bringing HSP90 into proximity with diverse client proteins.
To cause disease in maize, the biotrophic fungus Ustilago maydis secretes a large arsenal of effector proteins. Here, we functionally characterize the repetitive effector Rsp3 (repetitive secreted protein 3), which shows length polymorphisms in field isolates and is highly expressed during biotrophic stages. Rsp3 is required for virulence and anthocyanin accumulation. During biotrophic growth, Rsp3 decorates the hyphal surface and interacts with at least two secreted maize DUF26-domain family proteins (designated AFP1 and AFP2). AFP1 binds mannose and displays antifungal activity against the rsp3 mutant but not against a strain constitutively expressing rsp3. Maize plants silenced for AFP1 and AFP2 partially rescue the virulence defect of rsp3 mutants, suggesting that blocking the antifungal activity of AFP1 and AFP2 by the Rsp3 effector is an important virulence function. Rsp3 orthologs are present in all sequenced smut fungi, and the ortholog from Sporisorium reilianum can complement the rsp3 mutant of U. maydis, suggesting a novel widespread fungal protection mechanism.
Manipulating grain size is an effective strategy for increasing cereal yields. Here we identify a pathway composed of five subunits of the heterotrimeric G proteins that regulate grain length in rice. The Gβ protein is essential for plant survival and growth. Gα provides a foundation for grain size expansion. Three Gγ proteins, DEP1, GGC2 and GS3, antagonistically regulate grain size. DEP1 and GGC2, individually or in combination, increase grain length when in complex with Gβ. GS3, having no effect on grain size by itself, reduces grain length by competitively interacting with Gβ. By combining different G-protein variants, we can decrease grain length by up to 35% or increase it by up to 19%, which leads to over 40% decreasing to 28% increasing of grain weight. The wide existence of such a conserved system among angiosperms suggests a possible general predictable approach to manipulating grain/organ sizes.
Immune cells exhibit stimulation-dependent traveling waves in the cortex, much faster than typical cortical actin waves. These waves reflect rhythmic assembly of both actin machinery and peripheral membrane proteins such as F-BAR domain-containing proteins. Combining theory and experiments, we develop a mechanochemical feedback model involving membrane shape changes and F-BAR proteins that render the cortex an interesting dynamical system. We show that such cortical dynamics manifests itself as ultrafast traveling waves of cortical proteins, in which the curvature sensitivity-driven feedback always constrains protein lateral diffusion in wave propagation. The resulting protein wave propagation mainly reflects the spatial gradient in the timing of local protein recruitment from cytoplasm. We provide evidence that membrane undulations accompany these protein waves and potentiate their propagation. Therefore, membrane shape change and protein curvature sensitivity may have underappreciated roles in setting high-speed cortical signal transduction rhythms.
Sugars function as signal molecules to regulate growth, development, and gene expression in plants, yeasts, and animals. A coordination of sugar availability with phytohormone signals is crucial for plant growth and development. The molecular link between sugar availability and hormone-dependent plant growth are largely unknown. Here we report that BRI1 and BAK1 are involved in sugar-responsive growth and development. Glucose influences the physical interactions and phosphorylations of BRI1 and BAK1 in a concentration-dependent manner. BRI1 and BAK1 physically interact with G proteins that are essential for mediating sugar signaling. Biochemical data show that BRI1 can phosphorylate G protein β subunit and γ subunits, and BAK1 can phosphorylate G protein γ subunits. Genetic analyses suggest that BRI1 and BAK1 function in a common pathway with G-protein subunits to regulate sugar responses. Thus, our findings reveal an important genetic and molecular mechanism by which BR receptors associate with G proteins to regulate sugar-responsive growth and development.
The ubiquitously expressed RNA-binding proteins Roquin-1 and Roquin-2 are essential for appropriate immune cell function and postnatal survival of mice. Roquin proteins repress target mRNAs by recognizing secondary structures in their 3′-UTRs and by inducing mRNA decay. However, it is unknown if other cellular proteins contribute to target control. To identify cofactors of Roquin, we used RNA interference to screen ~1500 genes involved in RNA-binding or mRNA degradation, and identified NUFIP2 as a cofactor of Roquin-induced mRNA decay. NUFIP2 binds directly and with high affinity to Roquin, which stabilizes NUFIP2 in cells. Post-transcriptional repression of human ICOS by endogenous Roquin proteins requires two neighboring non-canonical stem-loops in the ICOS 3′-UTR. This unconventional cis-element as well as another tandem loop known to confer Roquin-mediated regulation of the Ox40 3′-UTR, are bound cooperatively by Roquin and NUFIP2. NUFIP2 therefore emerges as a cofactor that contributes to mRNA target recognition by Roquin.
The pool of quality control proteins (QC) that maintains protein-folding homeostasis (proteostasis) is dynamic but can become depleted in human disease. A challenge has been in quantitatively defining the depth of the QC pool. With a new biosensor, flow cytometry-based methods and mathematical modeling we measure the QC capacity to act as holdases and suppress biosensor aggregation. The biosensor system comprises a series of barnase kernels with differing folding stability that engage primarily with HSP70 and HSP90 family proteins. Conditions of proteostasis stimulation and stress alter QC holdase activity and aggregation rates. The method reveals the HSP70 chaperone cycle to be rate limited by HSP70 holdase activity under normal conditions, but this is overcome by increasing levels of the BAG1 nucleotide exchange factor to HSPA1A or activation of the heat shock gene cluster by HSF1 overexpression. This scheme opens new paths for biosensors of disease and proteostasis systems.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are increasingly recognised as important signalling molecules through oxidation of protein cysteine residues. Comprehensive identification of redox-regulated proteins and pathways is crucial to understand ROS-mediated events. Here, we present stable isotope cysteine labelling with iodoacetamide (SICyLIA), a mass spectrometry-based workflow to assess proteome-scale cysteine oxidation. SICyLIA does not require enrichment steps and achieves unbiased proteome-wide sensitivity. Applying SICyLIA to diverse cellular models and primary tissues provides detailed insights into thiol oxidation proteomes. Our results demonstrate that acute and chronic oxidative stress causes oxidation of distinct metabolic proteins, indicating that cysteine oxidation plays a key role in the metabolic adaptation to redox stress. Analysis of mouse kidneys identifies oxidation of proteins circulating in biofluids, through which cellular redox stress can affect whole-body physiology. Obtaining accurate peptide oxidation profiles from complex organs using SICyLIA holds promise for future analysis of patient-derived samples to study human pathologies.
BRCA1 is a tumor suppressor that regulates DNA repair by homologous recombination. Germline mutations in BRCA1 are associated with increased risk of breast and ovarian cancer and BRCA1 deficient tumors are exquisitely sensitive to poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors. Therefore, uncovering additional components of this DNA repair pathway is of extreme importance for further understanding cancer development and therapeutic vulnerabilities. Here, we identify EDC4, a known component of processing-bodies and regulator of mRNA decapping, as a member of the BRCA1-BRIP1-TOPBP1 complex. EDC4 plays a key role in homologous recombination by stimulating end resection at double-strand breaks. EDC4 deficiency leads to genome instability and hypersensitivity to DNA interstrand cross-linking drugs and PARP inhibitors. Lack-of-function mutations in EDC4 were detected in BRCA1/2-mutation-negative breast cancer cases, suggesting a role in breast cancer susceptibility. Collectively, this study recognizes EDC4 with a dual role in decapping and DNA repair whose inactivation phenocopies BRCA1 deficiency.
Secretion of extracellular vesicles (EVs), a process common to eukaryotes, archae, and bacteria, represents a secretory pathway that allows cell-free intercellular communication. Microbial EVs package diverse proteins and influence the host-pathogen interaction, but the mechanisms underlying EV production in Gram-positive bacteria are poorly understood. Here we show that EVs purified from community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus package cytosolic, surface, and secreted proteins, including cytolysins. Staphylococcal alpha-type phenol-soluble modulins promote EV biogenesis by disrupting the cytoplasmic membrane; whereas, peptidoglycan cross-linking and autolysin activity modulate EV production by altering the permeability of the cell wall. We demonstrate that EVs purified from a S. aureus mutant that is genetically engineered to express detoxified cytolysins are immunogenic in mice, elicit cytolysin-neutralizing antibodies, and protect the animals in a lethal sepsis model. Our study reveals mechanisms underlying S. aureus EV production and highlights the usefulness of EVs as a S. aureus vaccine platform.
Transcript abundance and protein abundance show modest correlation in many biological models, but how this impacts disease signature discovery in omics experiments is rarely explored. Here we report an integrated omics approach, incorporating measurements of transcript abundance, protein abundance, and protein turnover to map the landscape of proteome remodeling in a mouse model of pathological cardiac hypertrophy. Analyzing the hypertrophy signatures that are reproducibly discovered from each omics data type across six genetic strains of mice, we find that the integration of transcript abundance, protein abundance, and protein turnover data leads to 75% gain in discovered disease gene candidates. Moreover, the inclusion of protein turnover measurements allows discovery of post-transcriptional regulations across diverse pathways, and implicates distinct disease proteins not found in steady-state transcript and protein abundance data. Our results suggest that multi-omics investigations of proteome dynamics provide important insights into disease pathogenesis in vivo.
It has not only provided a global identification of expressed proteins in cyanobacterial cells, but has also brought valuable insights into dynamics of cell responses to environmental challenges, regulation mechanisms, structure of protein complexes, compartmentalization, and other important biological questions. In this review, we highlight current trends in proteomics of cyanobacteria and bring to focus rising techniques which have a huge potential in expanding our knowledge about cyanobacterial proteins and in developing cyanobacteria-based biotechnological applications.
Interaction proteomics studies have provided fundamental insights into multimeric biomolecular assemblies and cell-scale molecular networks. Significant recent developments in mass spectrometry-based interaction proteomics have been fueled by rapid advances in label-free, isotopic, and isobaric quantitation workflows. Here, we report a quantitative protein-DNA and protein-nucleosome binding assay that uses affinity purifications from nuclear extracts coupled with isobaric chemical labeling and mass spectrometry to quantify apparent binding affinities proteome-wide. We use this assay with a variety of DNA and nucleosome baits to quantify apparent binding affinities of monomeric and multimeric transcription factors and chromatin remodeling complexes.
In meso crystallization of membrane proteins from lipidic mesophases is central to protein structural biology but limited to membrane proteins with small extracellular domains (ECDs), comparable to the water channels (3-5 nm) of the mesophase. Here we present a strategy expanding the scope of in meso crystallization to membrane proteins with very large ECDs. We combine monoacylglycerols and phospholipids to design thermodynamically stable ultra-swollen bicontinuous cubic phases of double-gyroid (Ia3d), double-diamond (Pn3m), and double-primitive (Im3m) space groups, with water channels five times larger than traditional lipidic mesophases, and showing re-entrant behavior upon increasing hydration, of sequences Ia3d→Pn3m→Ia3d and Pn3m→Im3m→Pn3m, unknown in lipid self-assembly. We use these mesophases to crystallize membrane proteins with ECDs inaccessible to conventional in meso crystallization, demonstrating the methodology on the Gloeobacter ligand-gated ion channel (GLIC) protein, and show substantial modulation of packing, molecular contacts and activation state of the ensued proteins crystals, illuminating a general strategy in protein structural biology.
The flagellum and the injectisome enable bacterial locomotion and pathogenesis, respectively. These nanomachines assemble and function using a type III secretion system (T3SS). Exported proteins are delivered to the export apparatus by dedicated cytoplasmic chaperones for their transport through the membrane. The structural and mechanistic basis of this process is poorly understood. Here we report the structures of two ternary complexes among flagellar chaperones (FliT and FliS), protein substrates (the filament-capping FliD and flagellin FliC), and the export gate platform protein FlhA. The substrates do not interact directly with FlhA; however, they are required to induce a binding-competent conformation to the chaperone that exposes the recognition motif featuring a highly conserved sequence recognized by FlhA. The structural data reveal the recognition signal in a class of T3SS proteins and provide new insight into the assembly of key protein complexes at the export gate.
Facile automated biomacromolecule synthesis is at the heart of blending synthetic and biologic worlds. Full access to abiotic/biotic synthetic diversity first occurred when chemistry was developed to grow nucleic acids and peptides from reversibly immobilized precursors. Protein-polymer conjugates, however, have always been synthesized in solution in multi-step, multi-day processes that couple innovative chemistry with challenging purification. Here we report the generation of protein-polymer hybrids synthesized by protein-ATRP on reversible immobilization supports (PARIS). We utilized modified agarose beads to covalently and reversibly couple to proteins in amino-specific reactions. We then modified reversibly immobilized proteins with protein-reactive ATRP initiators and, after ATRP, we released and analyzed the protein polymers. The activity and stability of PARIS-synthesized and solution-synthesized conjugates demonstrated that PARIS was an effective, rapid, and simple method to generate protein-polymer conjugates. Automation of PARIS significantly reduced synthesis/purification timelines, thereby opening a path to changing how to generate protein-polymer conjugates.
G-alpha (Gα) and 'Regulator of G-protein Signaling (RGS)' proteins are the two key components primarily involved in regulation of heterotrimeric G-proteins signaling across phyla. Unlike Arabidopsis thaliana, our knowledge about G-protein regulation in polyploid Brassica species is sparse. In this study, we identified one Gα and two RGS genes each from three species of Brassica 'U' triangle and assessed the effects of whole genome triplication on the divergence of gene sequence and structure, protein-protein interaction, biochemical activities, and gene expression. Sequence and phylogenetic analysis revealed that the deduced Gα and RGS proteins are evolutionarily conserved across Brassica species. The duplicated RGS proteins of each Brassica species interacted with their cognate Gα but displayed varying levels of interaction strength. The Gα and the duplicated RGS proteins of Brassica species exhibited highly conserved G-protein activities when tested under in-vitro conditions. Expression analysis of the B. rapa RGS genes revealed a high degree of transcriptional differentiation across the tested tissue types and in response to various elicitors, particularly under D-glucose, salt and phytohormone treatments. Taken together, our results suggest that the RGS-mediated regulation of G-protein signaling in Brassica species is predominantly governed by stage and condition-specific expression differentiation of the duplicated RGS genes.
Serine/threonine protein phosphatase 5 (PP5) is ubiquitously expressed in eukaryotic cells; however, its function in cardiomyocytes is unknown. Under basal conditions, PP5 is autoinhibited, but enzymatic activity rises upon binding of specific factors, such as the chaperone Hsp90. Here we show that PP5 binds and dephosphorylates the elastic N2B-unique sequence (N2Bus) of titin in cardiomyocytes. Using various binding and phosphorylation tests, cell-culture manipulation, and transgenic mouse hearts, we demonstrate that PP5 associates with N2Bus in vitro and in sarcomeres and is antagonistic to several protein kinases, which phosphorylate N2Bus and lower titin-based passive tension. PP5 is pathologically elevated and likely contributes to hypo-phosphorylation of N2Bus in failing human hearts. Furthermore, Hsp90-activated PP5 interacts with components of a sarcomeric, N2Bus-associated, mechanosensor complex, and blocks mitogen-activated protein-kinase signaling in this complex. Our work establishes PP5 as a compartmentalized, well-controlled phosphatase in cardiomyocytes, which regulates titin properties and kinase signaling at the myofilaments.
GFI1 is a transcriptional regulator expressed in lymphoid cells, and an "oncorequisite" factor required for development and maintenance of T-lymphoid leukemia. GFI1 deletion causes hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation, for which the molecular mechanism remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that GFI1 is required in T cells for the regulation of key DNA damage signaling and repair proteins. Specifically, GFI1 interacts with the arginine methyltransferase PRMT1 and its substrates MRE11 and 53BP1. We demonstrate that GFI1 enables PRMT1 to bind and methylate MRE11 and 53BP1, which is necessary for their function in the DNA damage response. Thus, our results provide evidence that GFI1 can adopt non-transcriptional roles, mediating the post-translational modification of proteins involved in DNA repair. These findings have direct implications for treatment responses in tumors overexpressing GFI1 and suggest that GFI1's activity may be a therapeutic target in these malignancies.
The plasma membrane (PM) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae contains membrane compartments, MCC/eisosomes and MCPs, named after the protein residents Can1 and Pma1, respectively. Using high-resolution fluorescence microscopy techniques we show that Can1 and the homologous transporter Lyp1 are able to diffuse into the MCC/eisosomes, where a limited number of proteins are conditionally trapped at the (outer) edge of the compartment. Upon addition of substrate, the immobilized proteins diffuse away from the MCC/eisosomes, presumably after taking a different conformation in the substrate-bound state. Our data indicate that the mobile fraction of all integral plasma membrane proteins tested shows extremely slow Brownian diffusion through most of the PM. We also show that proteins with large cytoplasmic domains, such as Pma1 and synthetic chimera of Can1 and Lyp1, are excluded from the MCC/eisosomes. We hypothesize that the distinct localization patterns found for these integral membrane proteins in S. cerevisiae arises from a combination of slow lateral diffusion, steric exclusion, and conditional trapping in membrane compartments.
The skin's tendency to sunburn rather than tan is a major risk factor for skin cancer. Here we report a large genome-wide association study of ease of skin tanning in 176,678 subjects of European ancestry. We identify significant association with tanning ability at 20 loci. We confirm previously identified associations at six of these loci, and report 14 novel loci, of which ten have never been associated with pigmentation-related phenotypes. Our results also suggest that variants at the AHR/AGR3 locus, previously associated with cutaneous malignant melanoma the underlying mechanism of which is poorly understood, might act on disease risk through modulation of tanning ability.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare disorder with a poor prognosis. Deleterious variation within components of the transforming growth factor-β pathway, particularly the bone morphogenetic protein type 2 receptor (BMPR2), underlies most heritable forms of PAH. To identify the missing heritability we perform whole-genome sequencing in 1038 PAH index cases and 6385 PAH-negative control subjects. Case-control analyses reveal significant overrepresentation of rare variants in ATP13A3, AQP1 and SOX17, and provide independent validation of a critical role for GDF2 in PAH. We demonstrate familial segregation of mutations in SOX17 and AQP1 with PAH. Mutations in GDF2, encoding a BMPR2 ligand, lead to reduced secretion from transfected cells. In addition, we identify pathogenic mutations in the majority of previously reported PAH genes, and provide evidence for further putative genes. Taken together these findings contribute new insights into the molecular basis of PAH and indicate unexplored pathways for therapeutic intervention.
The temporal activation of kinases and timely ubiquitin-mediated degradation is central to faithful mitosis. Here we present evidence that acetylation controlled by Coenzyme A synthase (COASY) and acetyltransferase CBP constitutes a novel mechanism that ensures faithful mitosis. We found that COASY knockdown triggers prolonged mitosis and multinucleation. Acetylome analysis reveals that COASY inactivation leads to hyper-acetylation of proteins associated with mitosis, including CBP and an Aurora A kinase activator, TPX2. During early mitosis, a transient CBP-mediated TPX2 acetylation is associated with TPX2 accumulation and Aurora A activation. The recruitment of COASY inhibits CBP-mediated TPX2 acetylation, promoting TPX2 degradation for mitotic exit. Consistently, we detected a stage-specific COASY-CBP-TPX2 association during mitosis. Remarkably, pharmacological and genetic inactivation of CBP effectively rescued the mitotic defects caused by COASY knockdown. Together, our findings uncover a novel mitotic regulation wherein COASY and CBP coordinate an acetylation network to enforce productive mitosis.
Asymmetric cell divisions balance stem cell proliferation and differentiation to sustain tissue morphogenesis and homeostasis. During asymmetric divisions, fate determinants and niche contacts segregate unequally between daughters, but little is known on how this is achieved mechanistically. In Drosophila neuroblasts and murine mammary stem cells, the association of the spindle orientation protein LGN with the stem cell adaptor Inscuteable has been connected to asymmetry. Here we report the crystal structure of Drosophila LGN in complex with the asymmetric domain of Inscuteable, which reveals a tetrameric arrangement of intertwined molecules. We show that Insc:LGN tetramers constitute stable cores of Par3-Insc-LGN-GαiGDP complexes, which cannot be dissociated by NuMA. In mammary stem cells, the asymmetric domain of Insc bound to LGN:GαiGDP suffices to drive asymmetric fate, and reverts aberrant symmetric divisions induced by p53 loss. We suggest a novel role for the Insc-bound pool of LGN acting independently of microtubule motors to promote asymmetric fate specification.
Mutations in the progranulin (PGRN) gene cause a tau pathology-negative and TDP43 pathology-positive form of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD-TDP). We generated a knock-in mouse harboring the R504X mutation (PGRN-KI). Phosphoproteomic analysis of this model revealed activation of signaling pathways connecting PKC and MAPK to tau prior to TDP43 aggregation and cognitive impairments, and identified PKCα as the kinase responsible for the early-stage tau phosphorylation at Ser203. Disinhibition of Gas6 binding to Tyro3 due to PGRN reduction results in activation of PKCα via PLCγ, inducing tau phosphorylation at Ser203, mislocalization of tau to dendritic spines, and spine loss. Administration of a PKC inhibitor, B-Raf inhibitor, or knockdown of molecules in the Gas6-Tyro3-tau axis rescues spine loss and cognitive impairment of PGRN-KI mice. Collectively, these results suggest that targeting of early-stage and aggregation-independent tau signaling represents a promising therapeutic strategy for this disease.
Despite an abundance of new studies about topologically associating domains (TADs), the role of genetic information in TAD formation is still not fully understood. Here we use our software, HiCExplorer (hicexplorer.readthedocs.io) to annotate >2800 high-resolution (570 bp) TAD boundaries in Drosophila melanogaster. We identify eight DNA motifs enriched at boundaries, including a motif bound by the M1BP protein, and two new boundary motifs. In contrast to mammals, the CTCF motif is only enriched on a small fraction of boundaries flanking inactive chromatin while most active boundaries contain the motifs bound by the M1BP or Beaf-32 proteins. We demonstrate that boundaries can be accurately predicted using only the motif sequences at open chromatin sites. We propose that DNA sequence guides the genome architecture by allocation of boundary proteins in the genome. Finally, we present an interactive online database to access and explore the spatial organization of fly, mouse and human genomes, available at http://chorogenome.ie-freiburg.mpg.de.
Nature uses dynamic molecular platforms for the recruitment of weakly associating proteins into higher-order assemblies to achieve spatiotemporal control of signal transduction. Nanostructures that emulate this dynamic behavior require features such as plasticity, specificity and reversibility. Here we introduce a synthetic protein recruitment platform that combines the dynamics of supramolecular polymers with the programmability offered by DNA-mediated protein recruitment. Assembly of benzene-1,3,5-tricarboxamide (BTA) derivatives functionalized with a 10-nucleotide receptor strand into μm-long supramolecular BTA polymers is remarkably robust, even with high contents of DNA-functionalized BTA monomers and associated proteins. Specific recruitment of DNA-conjugated proteins on the supramolecular polymer results in a 1000-fold increase in protein complex formation, while at the same time enabling their rapid exchange along the BTA polymer. Our results establish supramolecular BTA polymers as a generic protein recruitment platform and demonstrate how assembly of protein complexes along the supramolecular polymer allows efficient and dynamic control of protein activity. DNA-origami allows the precise recruitment of DNA-protein conjugates but lacks the dynamics found in natural protein assemblies. Here the authors present a synthetic polymer platform that combines the dynamics of supramolecular polymers with the programmability of DNA-mediated protein recruitment.
Aim: Detection of protein expression changes in human cystic echinococcosis sera by 2D gel electrophoresis. Background: Diagnosis and successful treatment of cystic echinococcosis (CE) is a major challenge, up to now. Identification of related expressed proteins using proteomics tools and bioinformatics analysis of patients' sera have not been investigated, so far. Methods: Sera from eight confirmed CE patients and three healthy controls were collected, tested by 2-DE for total protein separation of serum and analyzed using proteomics and bioinformatics methods. The gels were stained by Coomassie blue followed by scan imaging of the gels. The protein spots in each gel were analyzed using progenesis same spots software. Proteins names were obtained from TagIdent server. Results: A total of 263 protein spots with different expression were detected in both normal and diseased samples. Comparison between diseased and normal gels showed the expression of 45 up-regulated protein spots with fold≥2 in diseased gel of which 10 were new proteins with statistical difference by normal gel (p-value<0.05). On the other hand, the expression of 50 down-regulated protein spots were observed of which 11 proteins have been suppressed. Clustering of all detected sera proteins (263) using correlation analysis, divided the proteins into 2 clusters based on up-regulated and down-regulated expression of proteins. Clustering results were approved by principal component analysis (PCA). Conclusion: Significant protein expression changes in human CE sera which is demonstrable by application of proteomics and bioinformatics analysis makes it an impressing tool for diagnosis of CE patients.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) has evolved sophisticated immune evasion mechanismsthat target both the innate and adaptive immune responses. However, how HCMV encodedproteins are involved in this immune escape is not clear. Here, we show that HCMV glycoproteinUS9 inhibits the IFN-B response by targeting the mitochondrial antiviral-signalingprotein (MAVS) and stimulator of interferon genes (STING)-mediated signaling pathways.US9 accumulation in mitochondria attenuates the mitochondrial membrane potential, leadingto promotion of MAVS leakage from the mitochondria. Furthermore, US9 disrupts STINGoligomerization and STING-TBK1 association through competitive interaction. Intriguingly,US9 blocks interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) nuclear translocation and its cytoplasmicdomain is essential for inhibiting IRF3 activation. Mutant HCMV lacking US7-16 is impaired inantagonism of MAVS/STING-mediated IFN-B expression, an effect that is reversible by theintroduction of US9. Our findings indicate that HCMV US9 is an antagonist of IFN signaling topersistently evade host innate antiviral responses.
Uneven distribution and local concentration of protein complexes on distinct membrane cortices is a fundamental property in numerous biological processes, including Drosophila neuroblast (NB) asymmetric cell divisions and cell polarity in general. In NBs, the cell fate determinant Numb forms a basal crescent together with Pon and is segregated into the basal daughter cell to initiate its differentiation. Here we discover that Numb PTB domain, using two distinct binding surfaces, recognizes repeating motifs within Pon in a previously unrecognized mode. The multivalent Numb-Pon interaction leads to high binding specificity and liquid-liquid phase separation of the complex. Perturbations of the Numb/Pon complex phase transition impair the basal localization of Numb and its subsequent suppression of Notch signaling during NB asymmetric divisions. Such phase-transition-mediated protein condensations on distinct membrane cortices may be a general mechanism for various cell polarity regulatory complexes.
Monocarpic plants have a single reproductive cycle in their lives, where life span is determined by the coordinated arrest of all meristems, or global proliferative arrest (GPA). The molecular bases for GPA and the signaling mechanisms involved are poorly understood, other than systemic cues from developing seeds of unknown nature. Here we uncover a genetic pathway regulating GPA in Arabidopsis that responds to age-dependent factors and acts in parallel to seed-derived signals. We show that FRUITFULL (FUL), a MADS-box gene involved in flowering and fruit development, has a key role in promoting meristem arrest, as GPA is delayed and fruit production is increased in ful mutants. FUL directly and negatively regulates APETALA2 expression in the shoot apical meristem and maintains the temporal expression of WUSCHEL which is an essential factor for meristem maintenance.
Here we report ultrastable synthetic binding pairs between cucurbit[7]uril (CB[7]) and adamantyl- (AdA) or ferrocenyl-ammonium (FcA) as a supramolecular latching system for protein imaging, overcoming the limitations of protein-based binding pairs. Cyanine 3-conjugated CB[7] (Cy3-CB[7]) can visualize AdA- or FcA-labeled proteins to provide clear fluorescence images for accurate and precise analysis of proteins. Furthermore, controllability of the system is demonstrated by treating with a stronger competitor guest. At low temperature, this allows us to selectively detach Cy3-CB[7] from guest-labeled proteins on the cell surface, while leaving Cy3-CB[7] latched to the cytosolic proteins for spatially conditional visualization of target proteins. This work represents a non-protein-based bioimaging tool which has inherent advantages over the widely used protein-based techniques, thereby demonstrating the great potential of this synthetic system.
Plants represent promising systems for producing various recombinant proteins. One key area of focus for improving this technology is developing methods for producing recombinant proteins at high levels. Many methods have been developed to increase the transcript levels of recombinant genes. However, methods for increasing protein production involving steps downstream of transcription, including translation, have not been fully explored. Here, we investigated the effects of N-glycosylation on protein production and provide evidence that N-glycosylation greatly increases the expression levels of ER-targeted recombinant proteins. Fusion of the extracellular domain (M domain) of protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C (CD45), which contains four putative N-glycosylation sites to a model protein, leptin at the C-terminus, increased recombinant protein levels by 6.1 fold. This increase was specific to ER-targeted proteins and was dependent on N-glycosylation. Moreover, expression levels of leptin, leukemia inhibitory factor and GFP were also greatly increased by fusion of M domain at either the N or C-terminus. Furthermore, the increase in protein levels resulted from enhanced translation, but not transcription. Based on these results, we propose that fusing a small domain containing N-glycosylation sites to target proteins is a powerful technique for increasing the expression levels of recombinant proteins in plants.
A better understanding of proteostasis in health and disease requires robust methods to determine protein half-lives. Here we improve the precision and accuracy of peptide ion intensity-based quantification, enabling more accurate protein turnover determination in non-dividing cells by dynamic SILAC-based proteomics. This approach allows exact determination of protein half-lives ranging from 10 to >1000 h. We identified 4000-6000 proteins in several non-dividing cell types, corresponding to 9699 unique protein identifications over the entire data set. We observed similar protein half-lives in B-cells, natural killer cells and monocytes, whereas hepatocytes and mouse embryonic neurons show substantial differences. Our data set extends and statistically validates the previous observation that subunits of protein complexes tend to have coherent turnover. Moreover, analysis of different proteasome and nuclear pore complex assemblies suggests that their turnover rate is architecture dependent. These results illustrate that our approach allows investigating protein turnover and its implications in various cell types.
Sucking pests pose a serious agricultural challenge, as available transgenic technologies such as Bacillus thuringiensis crystal toxins (Bt) are not effective against them. One approach is to produce fusion protein toxins for the control of these pests. Two protein toxins, Hvt (ω-atracotoxin from Hadronyche versuta) and onion leaf lectin, were translationally fused to evaluate the negative effects of fusion proteins on Phenacoccus solenopsis (mealybug), a phloem-feeding insect pest. Hvt was cloned both N-terminally (HL) and then C-terminally (LH) in the fusion protein constructs, which were expressed transiently in Nicotiana tabacum using a Potato Virus X (PVX) vector. The HL fusion protein was found to be more effective against P. solenopsis, with an 83% mortality rate, as compared to the LH protein, which caused 65% mortality. Hvt and lectin alone caused 42% and 45%, respectively, under the same conditions. Computational studies of both fusion proteins showed that the HL protein is more stable than the LH protein. Together, these results demonstrate that translational fusion of two insecticidal proteins improved the insecticidal activity relative to each protein individually and could be expressed in transgenic plants for effective control of sucking pests.
Currently, there is only limited knowledge on the protein types and structures of the cottonseed proteins. In this work, water-soluble cottonseed proteins (CSPw) and alkali-soluble cottonseed proteins (CSPa) were sequentially extracted from defatted cottonseed meal. Proteins of the two fractions were separated by 4-20% gradient polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE); There were 7 and 12 polypeptide bands on SDS-PAGE of CSPa and CSPw, respectively. These individual bands were then excised from the gel and subjected to mass spectrometric analysis. There were total 70 polypeptides identified from the proteins of the two cottonseed preparations, with molecular weights ranging from 10 to 381 kDa. While many proteins or their fragments were found in multiple bands, 18 proteins appeared only in one SDS-PAGE band (6 in CSPa, 12 in CSPw). Putative functions of these proteins include storage, transcription/translation, synthesis, energy metabolism, antimicrobial activity, and embryogenesis. Among the most abundant are legumin A (58 kDa), legumin B (59 kDa), vicilin C72 (70 kDa), vicilin GC72-A (71 kDa), and vicilin-like antimicrobial peptides (62 kDa). This work enriched the fundamental knowledge on cottonseed protein composition, and would help in better understanding of the functional and physicochemical properties of cottonseed protein and for enhancing its biotechnological utilization.
Upon invasion, Plasmodium falciparum exports hundreds of proteins across its surrounding parasitophorous vacuole membrane (PVM) to remodel the infected erythrocyte. Although this phenomenon is crucial for the parasite growth and virulence, elucidation of precise steps in the export pathway is still required. A translocon protein complex, PTEX, is the only known pathway that mediates passage of exported proteins across the PVM. P. falciparum Parasitophorous Vacuolar protein 1 (PfPV1), a previously reported parasitophorous vacuole (PV) protein, is considered essential for parasite growth. In this study, we characterized PfPV1 as a novel merozoite dense granule protein. Structured illumination microscopy (SIM) analyses demonstrated that PfPV1 partially co-localized with EXP2, suggesting the protein could be a PTEX accessory molecule. Furthermore, PfPV1 and exported protein PTP5 co-immunoprecipitated with anti-PfPV1 antibody. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) confirmed the proteins' direct interaction. Additionally, we identified a PfPV1 High-affinity Region (PHR) at the C-terminal side of PTP5 where PfPV1 dominantly bound. SIM analysis demonstrated an export arrest of PTP5ΔPHR, a PTP5 mutant lacking PHR, suggesting PHR is essential for PTP5 export to the infected erythrocyte cytosol. The overall results suggest that PfPV1, a novel dense granule protein, plays an important role in protein export at PV.
Protein degradation in lytic compartments is crucial for eukaryotic cells. At the heart of this process, vacuolar sorting receptors (VSRs) bind soluble hydrolases in the secretory pathway and release them into the vacuolar route. Sorting efficiency is suggested to result from receptor recycling. However, how and to where plant VSRs recycle remains controversial. Here we present a nanobody-epitope interaction-based protein labeling and tracking approach to dissect their anterograde and retrograde transport routes in vivo. We simultaneously employ two different nanobody-epitope pairs: one for the location-specific post-translational fluorescence labeling of receptors and the other pair to trigger their compartment-specific lockdown via an endocytosed dual-epitope linker protein. We demonstrate VSR recycling from the TGN/EE, thereby identifying the cis-Golgi as the recycling target and show that recycled VSRs reload ligands. This is evidence that bidirectional VSR-mediated sorting of vacuolar proteins exists and occurs between the Golgi and the TGN/EE.
Introduction: Chlamydia trachomatis is an obligate intracellular parasites, gram-negative bacteria and also is one of the most common sexually transmitted infections. Correspondingly, the MOMP protein contains more than 60% of the extra-membrane proteins, which indicates the importance of this protein for the detection of Chlamydia trachomatis. The purpose of the study is to produce recombinant protein composed of antigenic regions of the MOMP protein and its antigenicity. Materials and Methods: In this study, the regions with the highest antigenic property of the omp1 gene, with a length of 674 bp, were obtained based on bioinformatics software's and linked with flexible linker. Then, it was cloned and expressed in plasmid vector pET32a. After purification of the recombinant protein, its antigenicity was evaluated using Western blot technique with serum of infected people with Chlamydia. Results: Based on the results, in all serum samples of patients with chlamydial infections, antibody response bands were observed in nitrocellulose paper. Anyway, no antibody response band was detected in the serum samples of healthy people. Conclusion: Data showed that antigenic region of MOMP protein can be expressed by in E. coli. This protein was recognized by sera patients suffering from Chlamydia trachomatis infection. Conclusively, the recombinant protein has similar epitopes and close antigenic properties to the natural form of this antigen.
Autophagy is the major cellular pathway by which macromolecules are degraded, and amino acid depletion powerfully activates autophagy. MAP4K3, or germinal-center kinase-like kinase, is required for robust cell growth in response to amino acids, but the basis for MAP4K3 regulation of cellular metabolic disposition remains unknown. Here we identify MAP4K3 as an amino acid-dependent regulator of autophagy through its phosphorylation of transcription factor EB (TFEB), a transcriptional activator of autophagy, and through amino acid starvation-dependent lysosomal localization of MAP4K3. We document that MAP4K3 physically interacts with TFEB and MAP4K3 inhibition is sufficient for TFEB nuclear localization, target gene transactivation, and autophagy, even when mTORC1 is activated. Moreover, MAP4K3 serine 3 phosphorylation of TFEB is required for TFEB interaction with mTORC1-Rag GTPase-Ragulator complex and TFEB cytosolic sequestration. Our results uncover a role for MAP4K3 in the control of autophagy and reveal MAP4K3 as a central node in nutrient-sensing regulation.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Glycan microarrays provide a high-throughput means of profiling the interactions of glycan-binding proteins with their ligands. However, the construction of current glycan microarray platforms is time consuming and expensive. Here, we report a fast and cost-effective method for the assembly of cell-based glycan arrays to probe glycan-glycan-binding protein interactions directly on the cell surface. Chinese hamster ovary cell mutants with a narrow and relatively homogeneous repertoire of glycoforms serve as the foundation platforms to develop these arrays. Using recombinant glycosyltransferases, sialic acid, fucose, and analogs thereof are installed on cell-surface glycans to form cell-based arrays displaying diverse glycan epitopes that can be probed with glycan-binding proteins by flow cytometry. Using this platform, high-affinity glycan ligands are discovered for Siglec-15-a sialic acid-binding lectin involved in osteoclast differentiation. Incubating human osteoprogenitor cells with cells displaying a high-affinity Siglec-15 ligand impairs osteoclast differentiation, demonstrating the utility of this cell-based glycan array technology.
The Hippo pathway is a central regulator of tissue development and homeostasis, and has been reported to have a role during vascular development. Here we develop a bioluminescence-based biosensor that monitors the activity of the Hippo core component LATS kinase. Using this biosensor and a library of small molecule kinase inhibitors, we perform a screen for kinases modulating LATS activity and identify VEGFR as an upstream regulator of the Hippo pathway. We find that VEGFR activation by VEGF triggers PI3K/MAPK signaling, which subsequently inhibits LATS and activates the Hippo effectors YAP and TAZ. We further show that the Hippo pathway is a critical mediator of VEGF-induced angiogenesis and tumor vasculogenic mimicry. Thus, our work offers a biosensor tool for the study of the Hippo pathway and suggests a role for Hippo signaling in regulating blood vessel formation in physiological and pathological settings.
Infections with the mosquito-borne dengue virus (DENV) remain a significant public health challenge. In the absence of a commercial therapeutic to treat DENV infection, a greater understanding of the processes of cellular replication is required. The abundant cellular chaperone protein heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) has been shown to play a proviral role in the replication cycle of several viruses, predominantly through the stabilization of specific viral proteins. To investigate any potential role of Hsp90 in DENV infection the interaction between Hsp90 and DENV proteins was determined through co-immunoprecipitation experiments. Six DENV proteins namely envelope (E) and nonstructural (NS) proteins NS1, NS2B, NS3, NS4B and NS5 were shown to interact with Hsp90, and four of these proteins (E, NS1, NS3 and NS5) were shown to colocalize to a variable extent with Hsp90. Despite the extensive interactions between Hsp90 and DENV proteins, inhibition of the activity of Hsp90 had a relatively minor effect on DENV replication, with inhibition of Hsp90 resulting in a decrease of cellular E protein (but not nonstructural proteins) coupled with an increase of E protein in the medium and an increased virus titer. Collectively these results indicate that Hsp90 has a slight anti-viral effect in DENV infection.
Salt stress is one of the primary abiotic stresses responsible for decreasing crop yields worldwide. Germinating seeds can be greatly influenced by saline conditions. In this study, the physiological and phenotypic changes induced by salt treatments (10-50 mM NaCl and Na2SO4 mixtures) were analysed for Zhongmu-3 (Medicago sativa) and R108 (Medicago truncatula) seedlings. Our observations indicated that Zhongmu-3 was more salt-tolerant than R108. To characterize the protein expression profiles of these two Medicago species in response to salt stress, an iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis was applied to examine salt-responsive proteins. We identified 254 differentially changed salt-responsive proteins. Compared with control levels, the abundance of 121 proteins increased and 44 proteins decreased in salt-treated Zhongmu-3 seedlings, while 119 proteins increased and 18 proteins decreased in R108 seedlings. Moreover, 48 differentially changed proteins were common to Zhongmu-3 and R108 seedlings. A subsequent functional annotation indicated these proteins influenced diverse processes, such as catalytic activity, binding, and antioxidant activity. Furthermore, the corresponding transcript levels of 15 differentially changed proteins were quantified by qRT-PCR. The data presented herein provide new insights into salt-responsive proteins, with potential implications for enhancing the salt tolerance of Medicago species.
Eukaryotic cells contain translation-associated mRNA surveillance pathways which prevent the production of potentially toxic proteins from aberrant mRNA translation events. We found that loss of mRNA surveillance pathways in mutants deficient in nonsense-mediated decay (NMD), no-go decay (NGD) and nonstop decay (NSD) results in increased protein aggregation. We have isolated and identified the proteins that aggregate and our bioinformatic analyses indicates that increased aggregation of aggregation-prone proteins is a general occurrence in mRNA surveillance mutants, rather than being attributable to specific pathways. The proteins that aggregate in mRNA surveillance mutants tend to be more highly expressed, more abundant and more stable proteins compared with the wider proteome. There is also a strong correlation with the proteins that aggregate in response to nascent protein misfolding and an enrichment for proteins that are substrates of ribosome-associated Hsp70 chaperones, consistent with susceptibility for aggregation primarily occurring during translation/folding. We also identified a significant overlap between the aggregated proteins in mRNA surveillance mutants and ageing yeast cells suggesting that translation-dependent protein aggregation may be a feature of the loss of proteostasis that occurs in aged cell populations.
Intu is known as a ciliogenesis and planar polarity effector (CPLANE) protein. Although roles for Intu have been reported during embryonic development and in the context of developmental disorders, its function and regulation in adult tissues remain poorly understood. Here we show that ablation of Intu specifically in kidney proximal tubules aggravates renal ischemia-reperfusion injury, and leads to defective post-injury ciliogenesis. We identify signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) as a novel interacting partner of Intu. In vitro, Intu and STAT1 colocalize at the centriole/basal body area, and Intu promotes proteasomal degradation of STAT1. During cell stress, Intu expression preserves cilia length and cell viability, and these actions are antagonized by STAT1 expression. Thus, we propose a role for Intu in protecting cells and tissues after injury by targeting STAT1 for degradation and maintaining primary cilia.
Whereas nontargeted, discovery proteomics uncovers differences in the proteomic landscape under different conditions, targeted proteomics has been developed to overcome the limitations of this approach with regard to quantitation. In addition to technical advances in instruments and informatics tools, the advent of the synthetic proteome composed of synthetic peptides or recombinant proteins has advanced the adoption of targeted proteomics across a wide range of research fields. Targeted proteomics can now be applied to measurement of the dynamics of any proteins of interest under a variety of conditions as well as to estimation of the absolute abundance or stoichiometry of proteins in a given network. Multiplexed targeted proteomics assays of high reproducibility and accuracy can provide insight at the quantitative level into entire networks that govern biological phenomena or diseases. Such assays will establish a new paradigm for data-driven science.
Designing synthetic protein hydrogels with tailored mechanical properties similar to naturally occurring tissues is an eternal pursuit in tissue engineering and stem cell and cancer research. However, it remains challenging to correlate the mechanical properties of protein hydrogels with the nanomechanics of individual building blocks. Here we use single-molecule force spectroscopy, protein engineering and theoretical modeling to prove that the mechanical properties of protein hydrogels are predictable based on the mechanical hierarchy of the cross-linkers and the load-bearing modules at the molecular level. These findings provide a framework for rationally designing protein hydrogels with independently tunable elasticity, extensibility, toughness and self-healing. Using this principle, we demonstrate the engineering of self-healable muscle-mimicking hydrogels that can significantly dissipate energy through protein unfolding. We expect that this principle can be generalized for the construction of protein hydrogels with customized mechanical properties for biomedical applications.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways extensively studied in cancer and governing intertwined biological process challenges to identify the efficient drug target strategy. Cross-talks among ERK1/2, ERK5, JNK, and p38 amplify signaling flow and lead to the construction of the network of MAPK pathways. A topological analysis reveals that the network exponentially fits the degree distributions and targeting hub proteins causes detrimental to the network. We aim to identify novel drug targets controlling pathological consequences in the signaling flow than killing the cell. Intra-pathway node inhibition causes less perturbation in the network. We set the strategy of considering low degree (< 5) and intra-pathway nodes free from the intertwined regulations as preliminary isolation. Furthermore, nodes with less functionally diverse and significantly contributing to the cancer are isolated using GO annotations. Elements in the network of the MAPK pathways catalogued and analyzed using protein types, subcellular localization, cancerous/non-cancerous nature, target/non-targeted status, and inter- and intra-pathway properties to illustrate their roles in the complex mechanism of cancer. Over a decade of kinases as promising drug targets for cancer, other signal transduction supporting proteins also found to be equally competent. However, kinases interact with various other proteins to gain the higher degree. Similarly, translocation proteins interact with their partners in diverse location to gain the degree and functionally vital. Inhibition of kinases and translocation proteins may draw unexpected side effects. Non-targeted nodes Mos, PAC1, MKP4, 4EBP1, LAD, M3/6, RNPK, and SRF identified as cancer drug targets.
Kruppel-like factor 4 (Klf4) is a zinc-finger-containing protein that plays a critical role in diverse cellular physiology. While most of these functions attribute to its role as a transcription factor, it is postulated that Klf4 may play a role other than transcriptional regulation. Here we demonstrate that Klf4 loss in neural progenitor cells (NPCs) leads to increased neurogenesis and reduced self-renewal in mice. In addition, Klf4 interacts with RNA-binding protein Staufen1 (Stau1) and RNA helicase Ddx5/17. They function together as a complex to maintain NPC self-renewal. We report that Klf4 promotes Stau1 recruitment to the 3′-untranslated region of neurogenesis-associated mRNAs, increasing Stau1-mediated mRNA decay (SMD) of these transcripts. Stau1 depletion abrogated SMD of target mRNAs and rescued neurogenesis defects in Klf4-overexpressing NPCs. Furthermore, Ddx5/17 knockdown significantly blocked Klf4-mediated mRNA degradation. Our results highlight a novel molecular mechanism underlying stability of neurogenesis-associated mRNAs controlled by the Klf4/Ddx5/17/Stau1 axis during mammalian corticogenesis.
A multi-omics quantitative integrative analysis of lignin biosynthesis can advance the strategic engineering of wood for timber, pulp, and biofuels. Lignin is polymerized from three monomers (monolignols) produced by a grid-like pathway. The pathway in wood formation of Populus trichocarpa has at least 21 genes, encoding enzymes that mediate 37 reactions on 24 metabolites, leading to lignin and affecting wood properties. We perturb these 21 pathway genes and integrate transcriptomic, proteomic, fluxomic and phenomic data from 221 lines selected from ~2000 transgenics (6-month-old). The integrative analysis estimates how changing expression of pathway gene or gene combination affects protein abundance, metabolic-flux, metabolite concentrations, and 25 wood traits, including lignin, tree-growth, density, strength, and saccharification. The analysis then predicts improvements in any of these 25 traits individually or in combinations, through engineering expression of specific monolignol genes. The analysis may lead to greater understanding of other pathways for improved growth and adaptation.
Telomerase is a reverse transcriptase complex that ensures stable maintenance of linear eukaryotic chromosome ends by overcoming the end replication problem, posed by the inability of replicative DNA polymerases to fully replicate linear DNA. The catalytic subunit TERT must be assembled properly with its telomerase RNA for telomerase to function, and studies in Tetrahymena have established that p65, a La-related protein 7 (LARP7) family protein, utilizes its C-terminal xRRM domain to promote assembly of the telomerase ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex. However, LARP7-dependent telomerase complex assembly has been considered as unique to ciliates that utilize RNA polymerase III to transcribe telomerase RNA. Here we show evidence that fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe utilizes the p65-related protein Pof8 and its xRRM domain to promote assembly of RNA polymerase II-encoded telomerase RNA with TERT. Furthermore, we show that Pof8 contributes to repression of the transcription of noncoding RNAs at telomeres.
Macroautophagy (autophagy) is a crucial cellular stress response for degrading defective macromolecules and organelles, as well as providing bioenergetic intermediates during hypoxia and nutrient deprivation. Here we report a thiol-dependent process that may account for impaired autophagy during aging. This is through direct oxidation of key autophagy-related (Atg) proteins Atg3 and Atg7. When inactive Atg3 and Atg7 are protected from oxidation due to stable covalent interaction with their substrate LC3. This interaction becomes transient upon activation of Atg3 and Atg7 due to transfer of LC3 to phosphatidylethanolamine (lipidation), a process crucial for functional autophagy. However, loss in covalent-bound LC3 also sensitizes the catalytic thiols of Atg3 and Atg7 to inhibitory oxidation that prevents LC3 lipidation, observed in vitro and in mouse aorta. Here findings provide a thiol-dependent process for negatively regulating autophagy that may contribute to the process of aging, as well as therapeutic targets to regulate autophagosome maturation.
MCL1 is a pivot member of the anti-apoptotic BCL-2 family proteins. While a distinctive feature of MCL1 resides in its efficient ubiquitination and destruction, the deubiquitinase USP9X has been implicated in the preservation of MCL1 expression by removing the polyubiquitin chains. Here we perform an unbiased siRNA screen and identify that the second deubiquitinase, USP13, regulates MCL1 stability in lung and ovarian cancer cells. Mechanistically, USP13 interacts with and stabilizes MCL1 via deubiquitination. As a result, USP13 depletion using CRISPR/Cas9 nuclease system inhibits tumor growth in xenografted nude mice. We further report that genetic or pharmacological inhibition of USP13 considerably reduces MCL1 protein abundance and significantly increases tumor cell sensitivity to BH3 mimetic inhibitors targeting BCL-2 and BCL-XL. Collectively, we nominate USP13 as a novel deubiquitinase which regulates MCL1 turnover in diverse solid tumors and propose that USP13 may be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of various malignancies.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) and the non-coding telomerase RNA subunit (TR) constitute the core of telomerase. Here we now report that the putative F-box protein Pof8 is also a constitutive component of active telomerase in fission yeast. Pof8 functions in a hierarchical assembly pathway by promoting the binding of the Lsm2-8 complex to telomerase RNA, which in turn promotes binding of the catalytic subunit. Loss of Pof8 reduces TER1 stability, causes a severe assembly defect, and results in critically short telomeres. Structure profile searches identified similarities between Pof8 and telomerase subunits from ciliated protozoa, making Pof8 next to TERT the most widely conserved telomerase subunits identified to date.
The design of protein conformational switches - or proteins that change conformations in response to a signal such as ligand binding - has great potential for developing novel biosensors, diagnostic tools, and therapeutic agents. Among the defining properties of such switches, the response time has been the most challenging to optimize. Here we apply a computational design strategy in synergistic combination with biophysical experiments to rationally improve the response time of an engineered protein-based Ca2+-sensor in which the switching process occurs via mutually exclusive folding of two alternate frames. Notably, our strategy identifies mutations that increase switching rates by as much as 32-fold, achieving response times on the order of fast physiological Ca2+ fluctuations. Our computational design strategy is general and may aid in optimizing the kinetics of other protein conformational switches.
In contrast to the nearly error-free self-assembly of protein architectures in nature, artificial assembly of protein complexes with pre-defined structure and function in vitro is still challenging. To mimic nature's strategy to construct pre-defined three-dimensional protein architectures, highly specific protein-protein interacting pairs are needed. Here we report an effort to create an orthogonally interacting protein pair from its parental pair using a bacteria-based in vivo directed evolution strategy. This high throughput approach features a combination of a negative and a positive selection. The newly developed negative selection from this work was used to remove any protein mutants that retain effective interaction with their parents. The positive selection was used to identify mutant pairs that can engage in effective mutual interaction. By using the cohesin-dockerin protein pair that is responsible for the self-assembly of cellulosome as a model system, we demonstrated that a protein pair that is orthogonal to its parent pair could be readily generated using our strategy. This approach could open new avenues to a wide range of protein-based assembly, such as biocatalysis or nanomaterials, with pre-determined architecture and potentially novel functions and properties.
Membrane sculpting and transformation is essential for many cellular functions, thus being largely regulated by self-assembling and self-organizing protein coats. Their functionality is often encoded by particular spatial structures. Prominent examples are BAR domain proteins, the 'banana-like' shapes of which are thought to aid scaffolding and membrane tubulation. To elucidate whether 3D structure can be uncoupled from other functional features of complex scaffolding proteins, we hereby develop curved DNA origami in various shapes and stacking features, following the presumable design features of BAR proteins, and characterize their ability for membrane binding and transformation. We show that dependent on curvature, membrane affinity and surface density, DNA origami coats can indeed reproduce the activity of membrane-sculpting proteins such as BAR, suggesting exciting perspectives for using them in bottom-up approaches towards minimal biomimetic cellular machineries.
Direct delivery of proteins into cells avoids many drawbacks of gene delivery, and thus has emerging applications in biotherapy. However, it remains a challenging task owing to limited charges and relatively large size of proteins. Here, we report an efficient protein delivery system via the co-assembly of fluoroamphiphiles and proteins into nanoparticles. Fluorous substituents on the amphiphiles play essential roles in the formation of uniform nanoparticles, avoiding protein denaturation, efficient endocytosis, and maintaining low cytotoxicity. Structure-activity relationship studies reveal that longer fluorous chain length and higher fluorination degree contribute to more efficient protein delivery, but excess fluorophilicity on the polymer leads to the pre-assembly of fluoroamphiphiles into stable vesicles, and thus failed protein encapsulation and cytosolic delivery. This study highlights the advantage of fluoroamphiphiles over other existing strategies for intracellular protein delivery.
A subset of the proteome is prone to aggregate formation, which is prevented by chaperones in the cell. To investigate whether the basic principle underlying the aggregation process is common in prokaryotes and eukaryotes, we conducted a large-scale aggregation analysis of ~500 cytosolic budding yeast proteins using a chaperone-free reconstituted translation system, and compared the obtained data with that of ~3,000 Escherichia coli proteins reported previously. Although the physicochemical properties affecting the aggregation propensity were generally similar in yeast and E. coli proteins, the susceptibility of aggregation in yeast proteins were positively correlated with the presence of intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs). Notably, the aggregation propensity was not significantly changed by a removal of IDRs in model IDR-containing proteins, suggesting that the properties of ordered regions in these proteins are the dominant factors for aggregate formation. We also found that the proteins with longer IDRs were disfavored by E. coli chaperonin GroEL/ES, whereas both bacterial and yeast Hsp70/40 chaperones have a strong aggregation-prevention effect even for proteins possessing IDRs. These results imply that a key determinant to discriminate the eukaryotic proteomes from the prokaryotic proteomes in terms of protein folding would be the attachment of IDRs.
Many bacterial proteins require specific subcellular localization for function. How Escherichia coli proteins localize at one pole, however, is still not understood. Here, we show that the DnaK (HSP70) chaperone controls unipolar localization of the Shigella IpaC type III secretion substrate. While preventing the formation of lethal IpaC aggregates, DnaK promoted the incorporation of IpaC into large and dynamic complexes (LDCs) restricted at the bacterial pole through nucleoid occlusion. Unlike stable polymers and aggregates, LDCs show dynamic behavior indicating that nucleoid occlusion also applies to complexes formed through transient interactions. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching analysis shows DnaK-IpaC exchanges between opposite poles and DnaKJE-mediated incorporation of immature substrates in LDCs. These findings reveal a key role for LDCs as reservoirs of functional DnaK-substrates that can be rapidly mobilized for secretion triggered upon bacterial contact with host cells.
Heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) is a dimeric molecular chaperone that undergoes large conformational changes during its functional cycle. It has been established that conformational switch points exist in the N-terminal (Hsp90-N) and C-terminal (Hsp90-C) domains of Hsp90, however information for switch points in the large middle-domain (Hsp90-M) is scarce. Here we report on a tryptophan residue in Hsp90-M as a new type of switch point. Our study shows that this conserved tryptophan senses the interaction of Hsp90 with a stringent client protein and transfers this information via a cation-π interaction with a neighboring lysine. Mutations at this position hamper the communication between domains and the ability of a client protein to affect the Hsp90 cycle. The residue thus allows Hsp90 to transmit information on the binding of a client from Hsp90-M to Hsp90-N which is important for progression of the conformational cycle and the efficient processing of client proteins.
Emerging gene therapy approaches that aim to eliminate pathogenic mutations of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) rely on efficient degradation of linearized mtDNA, but the enzymatic machinery performing this task is presently unknown. Here, we show that, in cellular models of restriction endonuclease-induced mtDNA double-strand breaks, linear mtDNA is eliminated within hours by exonucleolytic activities. Inactivation of the mitochondrial 5′-3′exonuclease MGME1, elimination of the 3′-5′exonuclease activity of the mitochondrial DNA polymerase POLG by introducing the p.D274A mutation, or knockdown of the mitochondrial DNA helicase TWNK leads to severe impediment of mtDNA degradation. We do not observe similar effects when inactivating other known mitochondrial nucleases (EXOG, APEX2, ENDOG, FEN1, DNA2, MRE11, or RBBP8). Our data suggest that rapid degradation of linearized mtDNA is performed by the same machinery that is responsible for mtDNA replication, thus proposing novel roles for the participating enzymes POLG, TWNK, and MGME1.
About half of mammalian miRNA genes lie within introns of protein-coding genes, yet little is known about functional interactions between miRNAs and their host genes. The intronic miRNA miR-128 regulates neuronal excitability and dendritic morphology of principal neurons during mouse cerebral cortex development. Its conserved host genes, R3hdm1 and Arpp21, are predicted RNA-binding proteins. Here we use iCLIP to characterize ARPP21 recognition of uridine-rich sequences with high specificity for 3′UTRs. ARPP21 antagonizes miR-128 activity by co-regulating a subset of miR-128 target mRNAs enriched for neurodevelopmental functions. Protein-protein interaction data and functional assays suggest that ARPP21 acts as a positive post-transcriptional regulator by interacting with the translation initiation complex eIF4F. This molecular antagonism is reflected in inverse activities during dendritogenesis: miR-128 overexpression or knockdown of ARPP21 reduces dendritic complexity; ectopic ARPP21 leads to an increase. Thus, we describe a unique example of convergent function by two products of a single gene.
G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) form the largest receptor family, relay environmental stimuli to changes in cell behavior and represent prime drug targets. Many GPCRs are classified as orphan receptors because of the limited knowledge on their ligands and coupling to cellular signaling machineries. Here, we engineer a library of 63 chimeric receptors that contain the signaling domains of human orphan and understudied GPCRs functionally linked to the light-sensing domain of rhodopsin. Upon stimulation with visible light, we identify activation of canonical cell signaling pathways, including cAMP-, Ca2+-, MAPK/ERK-, and Rho-dependent pathways, downstream of the engineered receptors. For the human pseudogene GPR33, we resurrect a signaling function that supports its hypothesized role as a pathogen entry site. These results demonstrate that substituting unknown chemical activators with a light switch can reveal information about protein function and provide an optically controlled protein library for exploring the physiology and therapeutic potential of understudied GPCRs.
Recycling endosomes maintain plasma membrane homeostasis and are important for cell polarity, migration, and cytokinesis. Yet, the molecular machineries that drive endocytic recycling remain largely unclear. The CORVET complex is a multi-subunit tether required for fusion between early endosomes. Here we show that the CORVET-specific subunits Vps3 and Vps8 also regulate vesicular transport from early to recycling endosomes. Vps3 and Vps8 localise to Rab4-positive recycling vesicles and co-localise with the CHEVI complex on Rab11-positive recycling endosomes. Depletion of Vps3 or Vps8 does not affect transferrin recycling, but delays the delivery of internalised integrins to recycling endosomes and their subsequent return to the plasma membrane. Consequently, Vps3/8 depletion results in defects in integrin-dependent cell adhesion and spreading, focal adhesion formation, and cell migration. These data reveal a role for Vps3 and Vps8 in a specialised recycling pathway important for integrin trafficking.
Self-assembling proteins are critical to biological systems and industrial technologies, but predicting how mutations affect self-assembly remains a significant challenge. Here, we report a technique, termed SyMAPS (Systematic Mutation and Assembled Particle Selection), that can be used to characterize the assembly competency of all single amino acid variants of a self-assembling viral structural protein. SyMAPS studies on the MS2 bacteriophage coat protein revealed a high-resolution fitness landscape that challenges some conventional assumptions of protein engineering. An additional round of selection identified a previously unknown variant (CP[T71H]) that is stable at neutral pH but less tolerant to acidic conditions than the wild-type coat protein. The capsids formed by this variant could be more amenable to disassembly in late endosomes or early lysosomes - a feature that is advantageous for delivery applications. In addition to providing a mutability blueprint for virus-like particles, SyMAPS can be readily applied to other self-assembling proteins.
TryTransDB is a web-based resource that stores transport protein data which can be retrieved using a standalone BLAST tool. We have attempted to create an integrated database that can be a one-stop shop for the researchers working with transport proteins of Trypanosomatidae family. TryTransDB (Trypanosomatidae Transport Protein Database) is a web based comprehensive resource that can fire a BLAST search against most of the transport protein sequences (protein and nucleotide) from Trypanosomatidae family organisms. This web resource further allows to compute a phylogenetic tree by performing multiple sequence alignment (MSA) using CLUSTALW suite embedded in it. Also, cross-linking to other databases helps in gathering more information for a certain transport protein in a single website.
Aggregation is a sequence-specific process, nucleated by short aggregation-prone regions (APRs) that can be exploited to induce aggregation of proteins containing the same APR. Here, we find that most APRs are unique within a proteome, but that a small minority of APRs occur in many proteins. When aggregation is nucleated in bacteria by such frequently occurring APRs, it leads to massive and lethal inclusion body formation containing a large number of proteins. Buildup of bacterial resistance against these peptides is slow. In addition, the approach is effective against drug-resistant clinical isolates of Escherichia coli and Acinetobacter baumannii, reducing bacterial load in a murine bladder infection model. Our results indicate that redundant APRs are weak points of bacterial protein homeostasis and that targeting these may be an attractive antibacterial strategy.
Virus-host interactions determine an infection outcome. The Asian lineage of Zika virus (ZIKV), responsible for the recent epidemics, has fixed a mutation in the NS1 gene after 2012 that enhances mosquito infection. Here we report that the same mutation confers NS1 to inhibit interferon-β induction. This mutation enables NS1 binding to TBK1 and reduces TBK1 phosphorylation. Engineering the mutation into a pre-epidemic ZIKV strain debilitates the virus for interferon-β induction; reversing the mutation in an epidemic ZIKV strain invigorates the virus for interferon-β induction; these mutational effects are lost in IRF3-knockout cells. Additionally, ZIKV NS2A, NS2B, NS4A, NS4B, and NS5 can also suppress interferon-β production through targeting distinct components of the RIG-I pathway; however, for these proteins, no antagonistic difference is observed among various ZIKV strains. Our results support the mechanism that ZIKV has accumulated mutation(s) that increases the ability to evade immune response and potentiates infection and epidemics.
Hippo (Hpo) signaling pathway controls tissue growth by regulating the subcellular localization of Yorkie (Yki)/Yap via a cytoplasmic kinase cassette containing an upstream kinase Hpo/MST1/2 and a downstream kinase Warts (Wts)/Lats1/2. Here we show that PRP4K, a kinase involved in mRNA splicing, phosphorylates Yki/Yap in the nucleus to prevent its nuclear accumulation and restrict Hpo pathway target gene expression. PRP4K inactivation accelerates whereas excessive PRP4K inhibits Yki-driven tissue overgrowth. PRP4K phosphorylates a subset of Wts/Lats1/2 sites on Yki/Yap to inhibit the binding of Yki/Yap to the Scalloped (Sd)/TEAD transcription factor and exclude Yki/Yap nuclear localization depending on nuclear export. Furthermore, PRP4K inhibits proliferation and invasiveness of cultured breast cancer cells and its high expression correlates with good prognosis in breast cancer patients. Our study unravels an unanticipated layer of Hpo pathway regulation and suggests that PRP4K-mediated Yki/Yap phosphorylation in the nucleus provides a fail-safe mechanism to restrict aberrant pathway activation.
Cancer is a serious health concern growing at a rapid speed where normal cells take neoplastic transformation. Different pathway is tightly regulated with each other to maintain the harmony and sudden changes in single protein leads to aberrant changes in the whole system. Development of drugs to target these proteins aimed to block the signaling route that leads to cell death. Here, in this study, we performed in silico expression analysis of these potential proteins using system biological approach by mimicking the cell and understanding the behavior of different proteins in drugging condition. We performed in silico biomolecular interaction analysis for exploring the potential plant-derived compounds that can be served as an anticancerous drug with least toxicity by comparing with reference drug approved by FDA. Our results suggest that PI3K, p53-Mdm2 proteins are ideal proteins for targeting cancer cells, while overexpression of mTOR protein was observed when drug targeted this receptor. We state that PI3K family protein plays important role in drug discovery, and compounds obtained from in silico analysis can be served as a potential anticancerous drug for treating different cancer types.
Subcellular fine-tuning of the actomyosin cytoskeleton is a prerequisite for polarized cell migration. We identify LSP (lymphocyte-specific protein) 1 as a critical regulator of actomyosin contractility in primary macrophages. LSP1 regulates adhesion and migration, including the parameters cell area and speed, and also podosome turnover, oscillation and protrusive force. LSP1 recruits myosin IIA and its regulators, including myosin light chain kinase and calmodulin, and competes with supervillin, a myosin hyperactivator, for myosin regulators, and for actin isoforms, notably β-actin. Actin isoforms are anisotropically distributed in myosin IIA-expressing macrophages, and contribute to the differential recruitment of LSP1 and supervillin, thus enabling an actomyosin symmetry break, analogous to the situation in cells expressing two myosin II isoforms. Collectively, these results show that the cellular pattern of actin isoforms builds the basis for the differential distribution of two actomyosin machineries with distinct properties, leading to the establishment of discrete zones of actomyosin contractility.
BRCA1-BARD1-catalyzed ubiquitination of histone H2A is an important regulator of the DNA damage response, priming chromatin for repair by homologous recombination. However, no specific deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) are known to antagonize this function. Here we identify ubiquitin specific protease-48 (USP48) as a H2A DUB, specific for the C-terminal BRCA1 ubiquitination site. Detailed biochemical analysis shows that an auxiliary ubiquitin, an additional ubiquitin that itself does not get cleaved, modulates USP48 activity, which has possible implications for its regulation in vivo. In cells we reveal that USP48 antagonizes BRCA1 E3 ligase function and in BRCA1-proficient cells loss of USP48 results in positioning 53BP1 further from the break site and in extended resection lengths. USP48 repression confers a survival benefit to cells treated with camptothecin and its activity acts to restrain gene conversion and mutagenic single-strand annealing. We propose that USP48 promotes genome stability by antagonizing BRCA1 E3 ligase function.
Synapse formation is triggered by trans-synaptic interactions of cell adhesion molecules, termed synaptic organizers. Three members of type-II receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases (classified as type-IIa RPTPs; PTPδ, PTPσ and LAR) are known as presynaptic organizers. Synaptic adhesion-like molecules (SALMs) have recently emerged as a family of postsynaptic organizers. Although all five SALM isoforms can bind to the type-IIa RPTPs, only SALM3 and SALM5 reportedly have synaptogenic activities depending on their binding. Here, we report the crystal structures of apo-SALM5, and PTPδ-SALM2 and PTPδ-SALM5 complexes. The leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domains of SALMs interact with the second immunoglobulin-like (Ig) domain of PTPδ, whereas the Ig domains of SALMs interact with both the second and third Ig domains of PTPδ. Unexpectedly, the structures exhibit the LRR-mediated 2:2 complex. Our synaptogenic co-culture assay using site-directed SALM5 mutants demonstrates that presynaptic differentiation induced by PTPδ-SALM5 requires the dimeric property of SALM5.
The unique oncogene duet of coexisting BRAF V600E and TERT promoter mutations are widely found to be a robust genetic background promoting human cancer aggressiveness, but the mechanism is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that the BRAF V600E/MAP kinase pathway phosphorylates and activates FOS, which in turn acts as a transcription factor to bind and activate the GABPB promoter, increasing GABPB expression and driving formation of GABPA-GABPB complex; the latter selectively binds and activates mutant TERT promoter, upregulating TERT expression. Elevated TERT functions as a strong oncoprotein, robustly promoting aggressive behaviors of cancer cells and tumor development. We thus identify a molecular mechanism for the activation of mutant TERT by the BRAF V600E/MAP kinase pathway, in which FOS as a transcriptional factor of GABPB promoter plays a key role in functionally bridging the two oncogenes in cooperatively promoting oncogenesis, providing important cancer biological and clinical implications.
Many eukaryotic proteins are anchored to the cell surface via the glycolipid glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI). Mammalian GPIs have a conserved core but exhibit diverse N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) modifications, which are added via a yet unresolved process. Here we identify the Golgi-resident GPI-GalNAc transferase PGAP4 and show by mass spectrometry that PGAP4 knockout cells lose GPI-GalNAc structures. Furthermore, we demonstrate that PGAP4, in contrast to known Golgi glycosyltransferases, is not a single-pass membrane protein but contains three transmembrane domains, including a tandem transmembrane domain insertion into its glycosyltransferase-A fold as indicated by comparative modeling. Mutational analysis reveals a catalytic site, a DXD-like motif for UDP-GalNAc donor binding, and several residues potentially involved in acceptor binding. We suggest that a juxtamembrane region of PGAP4 accommodates various GPI-anchored proteins, presenting their acceptor residue toward the catalytic center. In summary, we present insights into the structure of PGAP4 and elucidate the initial step of GPI-GalNAc biosynthesis.
The most common malignant neoplasm of the head and neck region is laryngeal cancer which presents a significant international health problem. The present study aims to screen potential proteins related to laryngeal cancer by network analysis to further understanding disease pathogenesis and biomarker discovery. Differentially expressed proteins were extracted from literatures of laryngeal cancer that compare proteome profiling of patient›s tissue with healthy controls. The PPI network analyzed for up and down regulated proteins with Cytoscape Version 3.4. After PPI construction, topological properties of the two networks have been analyzed. Besides, by using MCODE. the Gene Ontology (GO) analysis, the related modules and pathways were examined. Our study screened 275 differentially changed proteins, including 136 up- and 139 down-regulated proteins. For each network, it has been considered 20 key proteins as hub and 20 as bottleneck. A number of 26 hub-bottleneck nodes is introduced for the two networks. A total of 11 modules including 6 downregulated and 5 upregulated network modules were obtained. The most significant GO function in the significant upregulated module was the RNA processing, and the most significant one in the downregulated module with highest score was the respiratory electron transport chain. Among 275 investigated proteins, 12 crucial proteins are determined that 4 of them can be introduce as a possible biomarker panel including YWHAZ, PPP2R1A, HSP90AA1, and CALM3 for human laryngeal cancer.
In clathrin-mediated endocytosis, adapter proteins assemble together with clathrin through interactions with specific lipids on the plasma membrane. However, the precise mechanism of adapter protein assembly at the cell membrane is still unknown. Here, we show that the membrane-proximal domains ENTH of epsin and ANTH of Sla2 form complexes through phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) lipid interfaces. Native mass spectrometry reveals how ENTH and ANTH domains form assemblies by sharing PIP2 molecules. Furthermore, crystal structures of epsin Ent2 ENTH domain from S. cerevisiae in complex with PIP2 and Sla2 ANTH domain from C. thermophilum illustrate how allosteric phospholipid binding occurs. A comparison with human ENTH and ANTH domains reveal only the human ENTH domain can form a stable hexameric core in presence of PIP2, which could explain functional differences between fungal and human epsins. We propose a general phospholipid-driven multifaceted assembly mechanism tolerating different adapter protein compositions to induce endocytosis.
As a circadian organ, liver executes diverse functions in different phase of the circadian clock. This process is believed to be driven by a transcription program. Here, we present a transcription factor (TF) DNA-binding activity-centered multi-dimensional proteomics landscape of the mouse liver, which includes DNA-binding profiles of different TFs, phosphorylation, and ubiquitylation patterns, the nuclear sub-proteome, the whole proteome as well as the transcriptome, to portray the hierarchical circadian clock network of this tissue. The TF DNA-binding activity indicates diurnal oscillation in four major pathways, namely the immune response, glucose metabolism, fatty acid metabolism, and the cell cycle. We also isolate the mouse liver Kupffer cells and measure their proteomes during the circadian cycle to reveal a cell-type resolved circadian clock. These comprehensive data sets provide a rich data resource for the understanding of mouse hepatic physiology around the circadian clock.
SALM5, a synaptic adhesion molecule implicated in autism, induces presynaptic differentiation through binding to the LAR family receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases (LAR-RPTPs) that have been highlighted as presynaptic hubs for synapse formation. The mechanisms underlying SALM5/LAR-RPTP interaction remain unsolved. Here we report crystal structures of human SALM5 LRR-Ig alone and in complex with human PTPδ Ig1-3 (MeA-). Distinct from other LAR-RPTP ligands, SALM5 mainly exists as a dimer with LRR domains from two protomers packed in an antiparallel fashion. In the 2:2 heterotetrameric SALM5/PTPδ complex, a SALM5 dimer bridges two separate PTPδ molecules. Structure-guided mutations and heterologous synapse formation assays demonstrate that dimerization of SALM5 is prerequisite for its functionality in inducing synaptic differentiation. This study presents a structural template for the SALM family and reveals a mechanism for how a synaptic adhesion molecule directly induces cis-dimerization of LAR-RPTPs into higher-order signaling assembly.
Ciliogenesis is generally inhibited in dividing cells, however, it has been unclear which signaling cascades regulate the phenomenon. Here, we report that epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) kinase suppresses ciliogenesis by directly phosphorylating the deubiquitinase USP8 on Tyr-717 and Tyr-810 in RPE1 cells. These phosphorylations elevate the deubiquitinase activity, which then stabilizes the trichoplein-Aurora A pathway, an inhibitory mechanism of ciliogenesis. EGFR knockdown and serum starvation result in ciliogenesis through downregulation of the USP8-trichoplein-Aurora A signal. Moreover, primary cilia abrogation, which is induced upon IFT20 or Cep164 depletion, ameliorates the cell cycle arrest of EGFR knockdown cells. The present data reveal that the EGFR-USP8-trichoplein-Aurora A axis is a critical signaling cascade that restricts ciliogenesis in dividing cells, and functions to facilitate cell proliferation. We further show that usp8 knockout zebrafish develops ciliopathy-related phenotypes including cystic kidney, suggesting that USP8 is a regulator of ciliogenesis in vertebrates.
Seed development relies upon carbon supplied by the parent plant. Here the authors propose that in Arabidopsis, phosphorylation of TTG1 by SHAGGY-like kinases 11/12 acts to regulate carbon flow between fatty acid synthesis in the embryo and mucilage and flavonoid production in the seed coat.
Salmonella infections require the delivery of bacterial effectors into the host cell that alter the regulation of host defense mechanisms. The secreted cysteine protease GtgE from S. Typhimurium manipulates vesicular trafficking by modifying the Rab32 subfamily via cleaving the regulatory switch I region. Here we present a comprehensive biochemical, structural, and computational characterization of GtgE in complex with Rab32. Interestingly, GtgE solely processes the inactive GDP-bound GTPase. The crystal structure of the Rab32:GDP substrate in complex with the inactive mutant GtgEC45A reveals the molecular basis of substrate recognition. In combination with atomistic molecular dynamics simulations, the structural determinants for protein and activity-state specificity are identified. Mutations in a central interaction hub lead to loss of the strict GDP specificity. Our findings shed light on the sequence of host cell manipulation events during Salmonella infection and provide an explanation for the dependence on the co-secreted GTPase activating protein SopD2.
The generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is inevitably linked to life. However, the precise role of ROS in signalling and specific targets is largely unknown. We perform a global proteomic analysis to delineate the yeast redoxome to a depth of more than 4,300 unique cysteine residues in over 2,200 proteins. Mapping of redox-active thiols in proteins exposed to exogenous or endogenous mitochondria-derived oxidative stress reveals ROS-sensitive sites in several components of the translation apparatus. Mitochondria are the major source of cellular ROS. We demonstrate that increased levels of intracellular ROS caused by dysfunctional mitochondria serve as a signal to attenuate global protein synthesis. Hence, we propose a universal mechanism that controls protein synthesis by inducing reversible changes in the translation machinery upon modulating the redox status of proteins involved in translation. This crosstalk between mitochondria and protein synthesis may have an important contribution to pathologies caused by dysfunctional mitochondria.
Generally, the high diversity of protein properties necessitates the development of unique nanoparticle bio-conjugation methods, optimized for each different protein. Here we describe a universal bio-conjugation approach which makes use of a new recombinant fusion protein combining two distinct domains. The N-terminal part is Glutathione S-Transferase (GST) from Schistosoma japonicum, for which we identify and characterize the remarkable ability to bind gold nanoparticles (GNPs) by forming gold-sulfur bonds (Au-S). The C-terminal part of this multi-domain construct is the SpyCatcher from Streptococcus pyogenes, which provides the ability to capture recombinant proteins encoding a SpyTag. Here we show that SpyCatcher can be immobilized covalently on GNPs through GST without the loss of its full functionality. We then show that GST-SpyCatcher activated particles are able to covalently bind a SpyTag modified protein by simple mixing, through the spontaneous formation of an unusual isopeptide bond.
The dynamic architecture of chromatin fibers, a key determinant of genome regulation, is poorly understood. Here, we employ multimodal single-molecule Förster resonance energy transfer studies to reveal structural states and their interconversion kinetics in chromatin fibers. We show that nucleosomes engage in short-lived (micro- to milliseconds) stacking interactions with one of their neighbors. This results in discrete tetranucleosome units with distinct interaction registers that interconvert within hundreds of milliseconds. Additionally, we find that dynamic chromatin architecture is modulated by the multivalent architectural protein heterochromatin protein 1α (HP1α), which engages methylated histone tails and thereby transiently stabilizes stacked nucleosomes. This compacted state nevertheless remains dynamic, exhibiting fluctuations on the timescale of HP1α residence times. Overall, this study reveals that exposure of internal DNA sites and nucleosome surfaces in chromatin fibers is governed by an intrinsic dynamic hierarchy from micro- to milliseconds, allowing the gene regulation machinery to access compact chromatin.
Fetal growth restriction increases the risk of poor childhood growth and development and chronic disease in adulthood. Yet, little is known about biological pathways that mediate the long-lasting effects of suboptimal intrauterine growth. We explored the plasma proteome in a cohort of 500 Nepalese children 6-8 years of age to identify plasma proteins associated with multiple anthropometric size indicators at birth. Among 982 proteins analyzed, no proteins differed by birth weight, length, or weight-for-length indicators. However, 25 proteins were differentially abundant in children with a small vs normal head circumference at birth (<-2 vs. ≥-2 z-scores of the WHO growth standards). Angiopoietin-like 6 was 19.4% more abundant and the other 24 proteins were 7-21% less abundant in children with a small vs normal head circumference at birth, adjusted for potential confounders. The less abundant proteins included actins, actin filament organizing proteins (α-actinin, talin, filamin, cofilin, profilin, and vinculin), proteins involved in muscle contraction, and glycolytic enzymes, which were all positively correlated with each other. A novel cluster of childhood plasma proteins involved in angiogenesis and cytoskeleton dynamics was associated with a small head size at birth. The prognostic value of an altered proteomic phenotype remains to be investigated.
Cell-free protein synthesis has emerged as a powerful approach for expanding the range of genetically encoded chemistry into proteins. Unfortunately, efforts to site-specifically incorporate multiple non-canonical amino acids into proteins using crude extract-based cell-free systems have been limited by release factor 1 competition. Here we address this limitation by establishing a bacterial cell-free protein synthesis platform based on genomically recoded Escherichia coli lacking release factor 1. This platform was developed by exploiting multiplex genome engineering to enhance extract performance by functionally inactivating negative effectors. Our most productive cell extracts enabled synthesis of 1,780 ± 30 mg/L superfolder green fluorescent protein. Using an optimized platform, we demonstrated the ability to introduce 40 identical p-acetyl-l-phenylalanine residues site specifically into an elastin-like polypeptide with high accuracy of incorporation (≥ 98%) and yield (96 ± 3 mg/L). We expect this cell-free platform to facilitate fundamental understanding and enable manufacturing paradigms for proteins with new and diverse chemistries.
Protein accumulation and aggregation with a concomitant loss of proteostasis often contribute to neurodegenerative diseases, and the ubiquitin-proteasome system plays a major role in protein degradation and proteostasis. Here, we show that three different proteins from Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's disease that misfold and oligomerize into a shared three-dimensional structure potently impair the proteasome. This study indicates that the shared conformation allows these oligomers to bind and inhibit the proteasome with low nanomolar affinity, impairing ubiquitin-dependent and ubiquitin-independent proteasome function in brain lysates. Detailed mechanistic analysis demonstrates that these oligomers inhibit the 20S proteasome through allosteric impairment of the substrate gate in the 20S core particle, preventing the 19S regulatory particle from injecting substrates into the degradation chamber. These results provide a novel molecular model for oligomer-driven impairment of proteasome function that is relevant to a variety of neurodegenerative diseases, irrespective of the specific misfolded protein that is involved.
Distal appendages (DAPs) are nanoscale, pinwheel-like structures protruding from the distal end of the centriole that mediate membrane docking during ciliogenesis, marking the cilia base around the ciliary gate. Here we determine a super-resolved multiplex of 16 centriole-distal-end components. Surprisingly, rather than pinwheels, intact DAPs exhibit a cone-shaped architecture with components filling the space between each pinwheel blade, a new structural element we term the distal appendage matrix (DAM). Specifically, CEP83, CEP89, SCLT1, and CEP164 form the backbone of pinwheel blades, with CEP83 confined at the root and CEP164 extending to the tip near the membrane-docking site. By contrast, FBF1 marks the distal end of the DAM near the ciliary membrane. Strikingly, unlike CEP164, which is essential for ciliogenesis, FBF1 is required for ciliary gating of transmembrane proteins, revealing DAPs as an essential component of the ciliary gate. Our findings redefine both the structure and function of DAPs.
Excitons in light-harvesting complexes are known to significantly improve solar-energy harnessing. Here we demonstrate photosynthetic excitons at super-physiological temperatures reaching 60-80 °C in different species of mesophilic photosynthetic bacteria. It is shown that the survival of light-harvesting excitons in the peripheral LH2 antennae is restricted by thermal decomposition of the pigment-protein complex rather than by any intrinsic property of excitons. The regular spatial organization of the bacteriochlorophyll a pigments supporting excitons in this complex is lost upon the temperature-induced breakdown of its tertiary structure. Secondary structures of the complexes survive even higher temperatures. The discovered pivotal role of the protein scaffold in the stabilization of excitons comprises an important aspect of structure-function relationship in biology. These results also intimately entangle the fundamental issues of quantum mechanical concepts in biology and in the folding of proteins.
Oxygenase-catalysed post-translational modifications of basic protein residues, including lysyl hydroxylations and N ϵ-methyl lysyl demethylations, have important cellular roles. Jumonji-C (JmjC) domain-containing protein 5 (JMJD5), which genetic studies reveal is essential in animal development, is reported as a histone N ϵ-methyl lysine demethylase (KDM). Here we report how extensive screening with peptides based on JMJD5 interacting proteins led to the finding that JMJD5 catalyses stereoselective C-3 hydroxylation of arginine residues in sequences from human regulator of chromosome condensation domain-containing protein 1 (RCCD1) and ribosomal protein S6 (RPS6). High-resolution crystallographic analyses reveal overall fold, active site and substrate binding/product release features supporting the assignment of JMJD5 as an arginine hydroxylase rather than a KDM. The results will be useful in the development of selective oxygenase inhibitors for the treatment of cancer and genetic diseases.
The Y-box proteins are multifunctional nucleic acid-binding proteins involved in various aspects of gene regulation. The founding member of the Y-box protein family, YB-1, functions as a transcription factor as well as a principal component of messenger ribonucleoprotein particles (mRNPs) in somatic cells. The nuclear level of YB-1 is well correlated with poor prognosis in many human cancers. Previously, we showed that a Y-box protein-Associated acidic protein, YBAP1, which is identical to complement component 1, q subcomponent-binding protein (C1QBP, also called gC1qR, hyaluronan-binding protein 1 [HABP1] or ASF/SF2-Associated protein p32), relieves translational repression by YB-1. Here we show that the nuclear localization of YB-1 harboring a point mutation in the cold shock domain was inhibited when co-expressed with YBAP1, whereas cytoplasmic accumulation of the wild-Type YB-1 was not affected. We showed that YBAP1 inhibited the interaction between YB-1 and transportin 1. In the cytoplasm, YBAP1 affected the accumulation of YB-1 to processing bodies (P-bodies) and partially abrogated the mRNA stabilization by YB-1. Our results, indicating that YBAP1/C1QBP regulates the nucleo-cytoplasmic distribution of YB-1 and its cytoplasmic functions, are consistent with a model that YBAP1/C1QBP acts as an mRNP remodeling factor.
Legionella pneumophila, a causative agent of pneumonia, utilizes the Type 4B secretion (T4BS) system to translocate over 300 effectors into the host cell during infection. T4BS systems are encoded by a large gene cluster termed dot/icm, three components of which, DotL, DotM, and DotN, form the "coupling complex", which serves as a platform for recruitment of effector proteins. One class of effectors includes proteins containing Glu-rich/E-block sequences at their C terminus. However, the protein or region of the coupling complex mediating recruitment of such effectors is unknown. Here we present the crystal structure of DotM. This all alpha-helical structure exhibits patches of positively charged residues. We show that these regions form binding sites for acidic Glu-rich peptides and that mutants targeting these patches are defective in vivo in the translocation of acidic Glu-rich motif-containing effectors. We conclude that DotM forms the interacting surface for recruitment of acidic Glu-rich motif-containing Legionella effectors.
Semen analysis is used for diagnosing male infertility and evaluating male fertility for more than a century. However, the semen analysis simply represents the population characteristics of sperm. It is not a comprehensive assessment of the male reproductive potential. In this study, 20 semen samples from human sperm bank with distinctive artificial insemination with donor sperm (AID) clinical outcomes were collected and analyzed using a two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE); 45 differentially expressed protein spots were obtained, and 26 proteins were identified. Most differentially expressed proteins were related to sperm motility, energy consumption, and structure. These identified proteins included several sperm proteins associated with the nucleus on the X chromosome (SPANX) proteins. This prospective study aimed to investigate the association between the expression levels of SPANX proteins and the AID clinical outcomes. The proteins identified in this study provided a reference for the molecular mechanism of sperm fertility and revealed a predictive value of the SPANX proteins.
Actin polymerization powers key cellular processes, including motility, morphogenesis, and endocytosis. The actin turnover cycle depends critically on "re-charging" of ADP-Actin monomers with ATP, but whether this reaction requires dedicated proteins in cells, and the underlying mechanism, have remained elusive. Here we report that nucleotide exchange catalyzed by the ubiquitous cytoskeletal regulator cyclase-Associated protein (CAP) is critical for actin-based processes in vivo. We determine the structure of the CAP-Actin complex, which reveals that nucleotide exchange occurs in a compact, sandwich-like complex formed between the dimeric actin-binding domain of CAP and two ADP-Actin monomers. In the crystal structure, the C-Terminal tail of CAP associates with the nucleotide-sensing region of actin, and this interaction is required for rapid re-charging of actin by both yeast and mammalian CAPs. These data uncover the conserved structural basis and biological role of protein-catalyzed re-charging of actin monomers.
We genetically controlled compartmentalization in eukaryotic cells by heterologous expression of bacterial encapsulin shell and cargo proteins to engineer enclosed enzymatic reactions and size-constrained metal biomineralization. The shell protein (EncA) from Myxococcus xanthus auto-assembles into nanocompartments inside mammalian cells to which sets of native (EncB,C,D) and engineered cargo proteins self-target enabling localized bimolecular fluorescence and enzyme complementation. Encapsulation of the enzyme tyrosinase leads to the confinement of toxic melanin production for robust detection via multispectral optoacoustic tomography (MSOT). Co-expression of ferritin-like native cargo (EncB,C) results in efficient iron sequestration producing substantial contrast by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and allowing for magnetic cell sorting. The monodisperse, spherical, and iron-loading nanoshells are also excellent genetically encoded reporters for electron microscopy (EM). In general, eukaryotically expressed encapsulins enable cellular engineering of spatially confined multicomponent processes with versatile applications in multiscale molecular imaging, as well as intriguing implications for metabolic engineering and cellular therapy.
Here we explore the relationship between presynaptic homeostatic plasticity and proteasome function at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction. First, we demonstrate that the induction of homeostatic plasticity is blocked after presynaptic proteasome perturbation. Proteasome inhibition potentiates release under baseline conditions but not during homeostatic plasticity, suggesting that proteasomal degradation and homeostatic plasticity modulate a common pool of vesicles. The vesicles that are regulated by proteasome function and recruited during homeostatic plasticity are highly EGTA sensitive, implying looser Ca2+ influx-release coupling. Similar to homeostatic plasticity, proteasome perturbation enhances presynaptic Ca2+ influx, readily-releasable vesicle pool size, and does not potentiate release after loss of specific homeostatic plasticity genes, including the schizophrenia-susceptibility gene dysbindin. Finally, we provide genetic evidence that Dysbindin levels regulate the access to EGTA-sensitive vesicles. Together, our data suggest that presynaptic protein degradation opposes the release of low-release probability vesicles that are potentiated during homeostatic plasticity and whose access is controlled by dysbindin.
Sebaceous carcinomas (SeC) are cutaneous malignancies that, in rare cases, metastasize and prove fatal. Here we report whole-exome sequencing on 32 SeC, revealing distinct mutational classes that explain both cancer ontogeny and clinical course. A UV-damage signature predominates in 10/32 samples, while nine show microsatellite instability (MSI) profiles. UV-damage SeC exhibited poorly differentiated, infiltrative histopathology compared to MSI signature SeC (p = 0.003), features previously associated with dissemination. Moreover, UV-damage SeC transcriptomes and anatomic distribution closely resemble those of cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas (SCC), implicating sun-exposed keratinocytes as a cell of origin. Like SCC, this UV-damage subclass harbors a high somatic mutation burden with >50 mutations per Mb, predicting immunotherapeutic response. In contrast, ocular SeC acquires far fewer mutations without a dominant signature, but show frequent truncations in the ZNF750 epidermal differentiation regulator. Our data exemplify how different mutational processes convergently drive histopathologically related but clinically distinct cancers.
Computational protein design has a wide variety of applications. Despite its remarkable success, designing a protein for a given structure and function is still a challenging task. On the other hand, the number of solved protein structures is rapidly increasing while the number of unique protein folds has reached a steady number, suggesting more structural information is being accumulated on each fold. Deep learning neural network is a powerful method to learn such big data set and has shown superior performance in many machine learning fields. In this study, we applied the deep learning neural network approach to computational protein design for predicting the probability of 20 natural amino acids on each residue in a protein. A large set of protein structures was collected and a multi-layer neural network was constructed. A number of structural properties were extracted as input features and the best network achieved an accuracy of 38.3%. Using the network output as residue type restraints improves the average sequence identity in designing three natural proteins using Rosetta. Moreover, the predictions from our network show ~3% higher sequence identity than a previous method. Results from this study may benefit further development of computational protein design methods.
Glycolytic reprogramming is a typical feature of many cancers; however, key regulators of glucose metabolism reengineering are poorly understood, especially in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC). Here, Homeobox A9 (HOXA9), a direct target of onco-miR-365, is identified to be significantly downregulated in cSCC tumors and cell lines. HOXA9 acts as a tumor suppressor and inhibits glycolysis in cSCC in vitro and in vivo by negatively regulating HIF-1α and its downstream glycolytic regulators, HK2, GLUT1 and PDK1. Mechanistic studies show that HOXA9-CRIP2 interaction at glycolytic gene promoters impeds HIF-1α binding, repressing gene expression in trans. Our results reveal a miR-365-HOXA9-HIF-1α regulatory axis that contributes to the enhanced glycolysis in cSCC development and may represent an intervention target for cSCC therapy.
Epidemiological studies show an inverse association between dairy consumption and blood pressure (BP) but there are few data on the postprandial effects of milk proteins. This study examined their effects, compared to maltodextrin, on postprandial BP and other CVD risk markers in volunteers with mild and pre-hypertension over an 8 h period. In this double-blinded, randomised, cross-over, controlled study 27 adults ingested a high-fat, isoenergetic breakfast and lunch with 28 g whey protein, 28 g Ca-caseinate or 27 g maltodextrin. Whey protein reduced systolic BP compared with Ca-caseinate (-15.2 ± 13.6 mmHg) and maltodextrin (-23.4 ± 10.5 mmHg) up to 5 h post-ingestion. There was an improvement in arterial stiffness after whey protein compared with maltodextrin (incremental Area Under the Curve- iAUC0-8h: +14.4 ± 6.2%). Despite similar glucose levels after both whey protein and Ca-caseinate, whey protein induced a higher insulin response than Ca-caseinate (iAUC0-8h: +219.5 ± 54.6 pmol/L). Ca-caseinate induced less suppression of non-esterified fatty acids than whey protein (iAUC0-5h: -58.9 ± 135.5 μmol/L) and maltodextrin (iAUC0-5h: -106.9 ± 89.4 μmol/L) and induced a smaller postprandial triacylglycerol response than whey protein (iAUC0-8h: -1.68 ± 0.6 mmol/L). Milk proteins co-ingestion with high-fat meals may have the potential to maintain or improve CVD risk factors.
The content of intrinsically disordered protein (IDP) is related to organism complexity, evolution, and regulation. In the Plantae, despite their high complexity, experimental investigation of IDP content is lacking. We identified by mass spectrometry 682 heat-resistant proteins from the green alga, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Using a phosphoproteome database, we found that 331 of these proteins are targets of phosphorylation. We analyzed the flexibility propensity of the heat-resistant proteins and their specific features as well as those of predicted IDPs from the same organism. Their mean percentage of disorder was about 20%. Most of the IDPs (~70%) were addressed to other compartments than mitochondrion and chloroplast. Their amino acid composition was biased compared to other classic IDPs. Their molecular functions were diverse; the predominant ones were nucleic acid binding and unfolded protein binding and the less abundant one was catalytic activity. The most represented proteins were ribosomal proteins, proteins associated to flagella, chaperones and histones. We also found CP12, the only experimental IDP from C. reinhardtii that is referenced in disordered protein database. This is the first experimental investigation of IDPs in C. reinhardtii that also combines in silico analysis.
The T3SS chaperone CesT is recently shown to interact with the post-transcriptional regulator CsrA to modulate post-attachment signaling in enteropathogenic and enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli. The molecular basis of the CesT/CsrA binding, however, remains elusive. Here, we show that CesT and CsrA both created two ligand binding sites in their homodimers, forming irregular multimeric complexes in solution. Through construction of a recombinant CsrA-dimer (Re-CsrA) that contains a single CesT binding site, the atomic binding features between CesT and CsrA are delineated via the structure of the CesT/Re-CsrA complex. In contrast to a previously reported N-terminally swapped dimer-form, CesT adopts a dimeric architecture with a swapped C-terminal helix for CsrA engagement. In CsrA, CesT binds to a surface patch that extensively overlaps with its mRNA binding site. The binding mode therefore justifies a mechanism of CsrA-modulation by CesT via competitive inhibition of the CsrA/mRNA interactions.
The small G-protein Rheb activates the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) in response to growth factor signals. mTORC1 is a master regulator of cellular growth and metabolism; aberrant mTORC1 signaling is associated with fibrotic, metabolic, and neurodegenerative diseases, cancers, and rare disorders. Point mutations in the Rheb switch II domain impair its ability to activate mTORC1. Here, we report the discovery of a small molecule (NR1) that binds Rheb in the switch II domain and selectively blocks mTORC1 signaling. NR1 potently inhibits mTORC1 driven phosphorylation of ribosomal protein S6 kinase beta-1 (S6K1) but does not inhibit phosphorylation of AKT or ERK. In contrast to rapamycin, NR1 does not cause inhibition of mTORC2 upon prolonged treatment. Furthermore, NR1 potently and selectively inhibits mTORC1 in mouse kidney and muscle in vivo. The data presented herein suggest that pharmacological inhibition of Rheb is an effective approach for selective inhibition of mTORC1 with therapeutic potential.
Adoptive T-cell therapy is a promising therapeutic approach for cancer patients. The use of allogeneic T-cell grafts will improve its applicability and versatility provided that inherent allogeneic responses are controlled. T-cell activation is finely regulated by multiple signaling molecules that are transcriptionally controlled by epigenetic mechanisms. Here we report that inhibiting DOT1L, a histone H3-lysine 79 methyltransferase, alleviates allogeneic T-cell responses. DOT1L inhibition reduces MIR-181a expression, which in turn increases the ERK phosphatase DUSP6 expression and selectively ameliorates low-avidity T-cell responses through globally suppressing T-cell activation-induced gene expression alterations. The inhibition of DOT1L or DUSP6 overexpression in T cells attenuates the development of graft-versus-host disease, while retaining potent antitumor activity in xenogeneic and allogeneic adoptive immunotherapy models. These results suggest that DOT1L inhibition may enable the safe and effective use of allogeneic antitumor T cells by suppressing unwanted immunological reactions in adoptive immunotherapy.
Proteogenomics enable the discovery of novel peptides (from unannotated genomic protein-coding loci) and single amino acid variant peptides (derived from single-nucleotide polymorphisms and mutations). Increasing the reliability of these identifications is crucial to ensure their usefulness for genome annotation and potential application as neoantigens in cancer immunotherapy. We here present integrated proteogenomics analysis workflow (IPAW), which combines peptide discovery, curation, and validation. IPAW includes the SpectrumAI tool for automated inspection of MS/MS spectra, eliminating false identifications of single-residue substitution peptides. We employ IPAW to analyze two proteomics data sets acquired from A431 cells and five normal human tissues using extended (pH range, 3-10) high-resolution isoelectric focusing (HiRIEF) pre-fractionation and TMT-based peptide quantitation. The IPAW results provide evidence for the translation of pseudogenes, lncRNAs, short ORFs, alternative ORFs, N-terminal extensions, and intronic sequences. Moreover, our quantitative analysis indicates that protein production from certain pseudogenes and lncRNAs is tissue specific.
The protein tyrosine phosphatase PTP1B is a major regulator of glucose homeostasis and energy metabolism, and a validated target for therapeutic intervention in diabetes and obesity. Nevertheless, it is a challenging target for inhibitor development. Previously, we generated a recombinant antibody (scFv45) that recognizes selectively the oxidized, inactive conformation of PTP1B. Here, we provide a molecular basis for its interaction with reversibly oxidized PTP1B. Furthermore, we have identified a small molecule inhibitor that mimics the effects of scFv45. Our data provide proof-of-concept that stabilization of PTP1B in an inactive, oxidized conformation by small molecules can promote insulin and leptin signaling. This work illustrates a novel paradigm for inhibiting the signaling function of PTP1B that may be exploited for therapeutic intervention in diabetes and obesity.
ARS2 is a highly conserved metazoan protein involved in numerous aspects of nuclear RNA metabolism. As a direct partner of the nuclear cap-binding complex (CBC), it mediates interactions with diverse RNA processing and transport machineries in a transcript-dependent manner. Here, we present the human ARS2 crystal structure, which exhibits similarities and metazoan-specific differences to the plant homologue SERRATE, most notably an additional RRM domain. We present biochemical, biophysical and cellular interactome data comparing wild type and mutant ARS2 that identify regions critical for interactions with FLASH (involved in histone mRNA biogenesis), NCBP3 (a putative cap-binding protein involved in mRNA export) and single-stranded RNA. We show that FLASH and NCBP3 have overlapping binding sites on ARS2 and that CBC-ARS2-NCBP3 form a ternary complex that is mutually exclusive with CBC-ARS-PHAX (involved in snRNA export). Our results support that mutually exclusive higher-order CBC-ARS2 complexes are critical in determining Pol II transcript fate.
Upon stress, profound post-transcriptional adjustments of gene expression occur in spatially restricted, subcellular, membraneless compartments, or ribonucleoprotein (RNP) granules, which are formed by liquid phase separation of RNA-binding proteins with low complexity sequence domains (LCDs). Here, we show that Rbfox1 is an LCD-containing protein that aggregates into liquid droplets and amyloid-like fibers and promiscuously joins different nuclear and cytoplasmic RNP granules. Using Drosophila oogenesis as an in vivo system for stress response, we demonstrate a mechanism by which Rbfox1 promotes cell survival. The stress-dependent miRNA miR-980 acts to buffer Rbfox1 levels, since it targets only those Rbfox1 transcripts that contain extended 3′UTRs. Reduced miR-980 expression during stress leads to increased Rbfox1 levels, widespread formation of various RNP granules, and increased cell viability. We show that human RBFOX proteins also contain multiple LCDs and form membraneless compartments, suggesting that the RNP granule-linked control of cellular adaptive responses may contribute to a wide range of RBFOX-associated pathologies in humans.
Conflicts between replication and transcription machineries represent a major source of genomic instability and cells have evolved strategies to prevent such conflicts. However, little is known regarding how cells cope with sudden increases of transcription while replicating. Here, we report the existence of a general mechanism for the protection of genomic integrity upon transcriptional outbursts in S phase that is mediated by Mrc1. The N-terminal phosphorylation of Mrc1 blocked replication and prevented transcription-associated recombination (TAR) and genomic instability during stress-induced gene expression in S phase. An unbiased kinome screening identified several kinases that phosphorylate Mrc1 at the N terminus upon different environmental stresses. Mrc1 function was not restricted to environmental cues but was also required when unscheduled transcription was triggered by low fitness states such as genomic instability or slow growth. Our data indicate that Mrc1 integrates multiple signals, thereby defining a general safeguard mechanism to protect genomic integrity upon transcriptional outbursts.
Teneurins are ancient cell-cell adhesion receptors that are vital for brain development and synapse organisation. They originated in early metazoan evolution through a horizontal gene transfer event when a bacterial YD-repeat toxin fused to a eukaryotic receptor. We present X-ray crystallography and cryo-EM structures of two Teneurins, revealing a ~200 kDa extracellular super-fold in which eight sub-domains form an intricate structure centred on a spiralling YD-repeat shell. An alternatively spliced loop, which is implicated in homophilic Teneurin interaction and specificity, is exposed and thus poised for interaction. The N-terminal side of the shell is 'plugged' via a fibronectin-plug domain combination, which defines a new class of YD proteins. Unexpectedly, we find that these proteins are widespread amongst modern bacteria, suggesting early metazoan receptor evolution from a distinct class of proteins, which today includes both bacterial proteins and eukaryotic Teneurins.
The NLR apoptosis inhibitory proteins (NAIPs) function as specific cytosolic receptors for bacterial ligands to form the NAIP-NLRC4 inflammasome for anti-bacterial defenses. In mice, NAIP5/6 and NAIP2 recognize bacteria flagellin and the rod protein of the type III secretion system (T3SS), respectively. However, molecular mechanism for specific ligand pattern-recognition by the NAIPs is largely unknown. Here, through extensive domain swapping and truncation analyses, three structural domains, the pre-BIR, BIR1, and HD1, in NAIP2 and NAIP5 are identified, that are important for specific recognition of their respective ligand(s). The three domains are sufficient to confer the ligand specificity for NAIP2. Asp-18, Arg-108, and Arg-667, respectively, in the pre-BIR, BIR1 and HD1 of NAIP2 are further identified, each of which is essential for efficient binding to the rod protein. To our surprise, we find that the C-terminal leucine-rich repeat domain is dispensable for NAIP2 recognition of the T3SS rod protein, but is required for NAIP5 binding to flagellin. At the ligand side, we discover that the C-terminal 35 residues in flagellin are crucial for binding to NAIP5. Among the 35 residues, three critical residues are identified, which determine flagellin recognition by NAIP5 and subsequent inflammasome activation. The differences in the three amino-acid residues among flagellins from various pathogenic and commensal bacterial species correlate well with whether they are susceptible to NAIP5-mediated immune detection. Taken together, our studies identify critical sequence and amino-acid determinants in both NAIP receptors and the bacterial ligand flagellin that are important for the specificity of the pattern-recognition.
Multi-Angle light scattering coupled with size exclusion chromatography (SEC-MALS) is a standard and common approach for characterizing protein mass, overall shape, aggregation, oligomerization, interactions and purity. The limited resolution of analytical SEC restricts in some instances the accurate analysis that can be accomplished by MALS. These include mixtures of protein populations with identical or very similar molecular masses, oligomers with poor separation and short peptides. Here we show that combining MALS with the higher resolution separation technique ion exchange (IEX-MALS) can allow precise analyses of samples that cannot be resolved by SEC-MALS. We conclude that IEX-MALS is a valuable and complementary method for protein characterization, especially for protein systems that could not be fully analyzed by SEC-MALS.
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV) causes 13,000 cases of human meningitis and encephalitis annually. However, the structure of the TBEV virion and its interactions with antibodies are unknown. Here, we present cryo-EM structures of the native TBEV virion and its complex with Fab fragments of neutralizing antibody 19/1786. Flavivirus genome delivery depends on membrane fusion that is triggered at low pH. The virion structure indicates that the repulsive interactions of histidine side chains, which become protonated at low pH, may contribute to the disruption of heterotetramers of the TBEV envelope and membrane proteins and induce detachment of the envelope protein ectodomains from the virus membrane. The Fab fragments bind to 120 out of the 180 envelope glycoproteins of the TBEV virion. Unlike most of the previously studied flavivirus-neutralizing antibodies, the Fab fragments do not lock the E-proteins in the native-like arrangement, but interfere with the process of virus-induced membrane fusion.
Most systemic viral gene therapies have been limited by sequestration and degradation of virions, innate and adaptive immunity, and silencing of therapeutic genes within the target cells. Here we engineer a high-affinity protein coat, shielding the most commonly used vector in clinical gene therapy, human adenovirus type 5. Using electron microscopy and crystallography we demonstrate a massive coverage of the virion surface through the hexon-shielding scFv fragment, trimerized to exploit the hexon symmetry and gain avidity. The shield reduces virion clearance in the liver. When the shielded particles are equipped with adaptor proteins, the virions deliver their payload genes into human cancer cells expressing HER2 or EGFR. The combination of shield and adapter also increases viral gene delivery to xenografted tumors in vivo, reduces liver off-targeting and immune neutralization. Our study highlights the power of protein engineering for viral vectors overcoming the challenges of local and systemic viral gene therapies.
Cytokine-induced signal transduction is executed by natural biological switches, which among many others control immune-related processes. Here, we show that synthetic cytokine receptors (SyCyRs) can induce cytokine signaling using non-physiological ligands. High-affinity GFP- and mCherry-nanobodies were fused to transmembrane and intracellular domains of the IL-6/IL-11 and IL-23 cytokine receptors gp130 and IL-12Rβ1/IL-23R, respectively. Homo- and heterodimeric GFP:mCherry fusion proteins as synthetic cytokine-like ligands were able to induce canonical signaling in vitro and in vivo. Using SyCyR ligands, we show that IL-23 receptor homodimerization results in its activation and IL-23-like signal transduction. Moreover, trimeric receptor assembly induces trans-phosphorylation among cytokine receptors with associated Janus kinases. The SyCyR technology allows biochemical analyses of transmembrane receptor signaling in vitro and in vivo, cell-specific activation through SyCyR ligands using transgenic animals and possible therapeutic regimes involving non-physiological targets during immunotherapy.
This Article contains errors in Reference 17 which was incorrectly given as: Shikano, K. et al. Effects of chronic intracerebroventricular infusion of neurosecretory protein GL on body mass and food and water intake in chicks. Gen. Comp. Endocrinol 256, 37-42 (2017). The correct reference is listed below as ref.1..
The NLRP3 inflammasome has an important function in inflammation by promoting the processing of pro-IL-1β and pro-IL-18 to their mature bioactive forms, and by inducing cell death via pyroptosis. Here we show a critical function of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Pellino2 in facilitating activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. Pellino2-deficient mice and myeloid cells have impaired activation of NLRP3 in response to toll-like receptor priming, NLRP3 stimuli and bacterial challenge. These functions of Pellino2 in the NLRP3 pathway are dependent on Pellino2 FHA and RING-like domains, with Pellino2 promoting the ubiquitination of NLRP3 during the priming phase of activation. We also identify a negative function of IRAK1 in the NLRP3 inflammasome, and describe a counter-regulatory relationship between IRAK1 and Pellino2. Our findings reveal a Pellino2-mediated regulatory signaling system that controls activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome.
Up-Frameshift Suppressor 1 Homolog (UPF1) is a key factor for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), a cellular process that can actively degrade mRNAs. Here, we study NMD inhibition during infection by human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-1) and characterise the influence of the retroviral Tax factor on UPF1 activity. Tax interacts with the central helicase core domain of UPF1 and might plug the RNA channel of UPF1, reducing its affinity for nucleic acids. Furthermore, using a single-molecule approach, we show that the sequential interaction of Tax with a RNA-bound UPF1 freezes UPF1: this latter is less sensitive to the presence of ATP and shows translocation defects, highlighting the importance of this feature for NMD. These mechanistic insights reveal how HTLV-1 hijacks the central component of NMD to ensure expression of its own genome.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) activate heterotrimeric G proteins by mediating a GDP to GTP exchange in the Gα subunit. This leads to dissociation of the heterotrimer into Gα-GTP and Gβγ dimer. The Gα-GTP and Gβγ dimer each regulate a variety of downstream pathways to control various aspects of human physiology. Dysregulated Gβγ-signaling is a central element of various neurological and cancer-related anomalies. However, Gβγ also serves as a negative regulator of Gα that is essential for G protein inactivation, and thus has the potential for numerous side effects when targeted therapeutically. Here we report a llama-derived nanobody (Nb5) that binds tightly to the Gβγ dimer. Nb5 responds to all combinations of β-subtypes and γ-subtypes and competes with other Gβγ-regulatory proteins for a common binding site on the Gβγ dimer. Despite its inhibitory effect on Gβγ-mediated signaling, Nb5 has no effect on Gαq-mediated and Gαs-mediated signaling events in living cells.
Entry of enveloped viruses relies on insertion of hydrophobic residues of the viral fusion protein into the host cell membrane. However, the intermediate conformations during fusion remain unknown. Here, we address the fusion mechanism of Rift Valley fever virus. We determine the crystal structure of the Gn glycoprotein and fit it with the Gc fusion protein into cryo-electron microscopy reconstructions of the virion. Our analysis reveals how the Gn shields the hydrophobic fusion loops of the Gc, preventing premature fusion. Electron cryotomography of virions interacting with membranes under acidic conditions reveals how the fusogenic Gc is activated upon removal of the Gn shield. Repositioning of the Gn allows extension of Gc and insertion of fusion loops in the outer leaflet of the target membrane. These data show early structural transitions that enveloped viruses undergo during host cell entry and indicate that analogous shielding mechanisms are utilized across diverse virus families.
Aberrant gene expression is a hallmark of acute leukemias. MYB-driven transcriptional coactivation with CREB-binding protein (CBP)/P300 is required for acute lymphoblastic and myeloid leukemias, including refractory MLL-rearranged leukemias. Using structure-guided molecular design, we developed a peptidomimetic inhibitor MYBMIM that interferes with the assembly of the molecular MYB:CBP/P300 complex and rapidly accumulates in the nuclei of AML cells. Treatment of AML cells with MYBMIM led to the dissociation of the MYB:CBP/P300 complex in cells, its displacement from oncogenic enhancers enriched for MYB binding sites, and downregulation of MYB-dependent gene expression, including of MYC and BCL2 oncogenes. AML cells underwent mitochondrial apoptosis in response to MYBMIM, which was partially rescued by ectopic expression of BCL2. MYBMIM impeded leukemia growth and extended survival of immunodeficient mice engrafted with primary patient-derived MLL-rearranged leukemia cells. These findings elucidate the dependence of human AML on aberrant transcriptional coactivation, and establish a pharmacologic approach for its therapeutic blockade.
Nuclease and helicase activities play pivotal roles in various aspects of RNA processing and degradation. These two activities are often present in multi-subunit complexes from nucleic acid metabolism. In the mitochondrial exoribonuclease complex (mtEXO) both enzymatic activities are tightly coupled making it an excellent minimal system to study helicase-exoribonuclease coordination. mtEXO is composed of Dss1 3′-To-5′ exoribonuclease and Suv3 helicase. It is the master regulator of mitochondrial gene expression in yeast. Here, we present the structure of mtEXO and a description of its mechanism of action. The crystal structure of Dss1 reveals domains that are responsible for interactions with Suv3. Importantly, these interactions are compatible with the conformational changes of Suv3 domains during the helicase cycle. We demonstrate that mtEXO is an intimate complex which forms an RNA-binding channel spanning its entire structure, with Suv3 helicase feeding the 3′ end of the RNA toward the active site of Dss1.
Transcription-blocking DNA lesions are removed by transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair (TC-NER) to preserve cell viability. TC-NER is triggered by the stalling of RNA polymerase II at DNA lesions, leading to the recruitment of TC-NER-specific factors such as the CSA-DDB1-CUL4A-RBX1 cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase complex (CRLCSA). Despite its vital role in TC-NER, little is known about the regulation of the CRLCSA complex during TC-NER. Using conventional and cross-linking immunoprecipitations coupled to mass spectrometry, we uncover a stable interaction between CSA and the TRiC chaperonin. TRiC's binding to CSA ensures its stability and DDB1-dependent assembly into the CRLCSA complex. Consequently, loss of TRiC leads to mislocalization and depletion of CSA, as well as impaired transcription recovery following UV damage, suggesting defects in TC-NER. Furthermore, Cockayne syndrome (CS)-causing mutations in CSA lead to increased TRiC binding and a failure to compose the CRLCSA complex. Thus, we uncover CSA as a TRiC substrate and reveal that TRiC regulates CSA-dependent TC-NER and the development of CS.
Transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling is initiated by the type I, II TGFβ receptor (TβRI/TβRII) complex. Here we report the formation of an alternative complex between TβRI and the orphan GPR50, belonging to the G protein-coupled receptor super-family. The interaction of GPR50 with TβRI induces spontaneous TβRI-dependent Smad and non-Smad signaling by stabilizing the active TβRI conformation and competing for the binding of the negative regulator FKBP12 to TβRI. GPR50 overexpression in MDA-MB-231 cells mimics the anti-proliferative effect of TβRI and decreases tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model. Inversely, targeted deletion of GPR50 in the MMTV/Neu spontaneous mammary cancer model shows decreased survival after tumor onset and increased tumor growth. Low GPR50 expression is associated with poor survival prognosis in human breast cancer irrespective of the breast cancer subtype. This describes a previously unappreciated spontaneous TGFβ-independent activation mode of TβRI and identifies GPR50 as a TβRI co-receptor with potential impact on cancer development.
We use coarse-grain molecular simulations to investigate the structural and dynamics differences between an asymmetric and a symmetrical membrane, both containing beta barrel transmembrane proteins. We find in where the dynamics of the two leaflets differ greatly, the slowest leaflet dominates the structural effects and importance of protein-lipid interactions.
Selective modification of native proteins in live cells is one of the central challenges in recent chemical biology. As a unique bioorthogonal approach, ligand-directed chemistry recently emerged, but the slow kinetics limits its scope. Here we successfully overcome this obstacle using N-Acyl-N-Alkyl sulfonamide as a reactive group. Quantitative kinetic analyses reveal that ligand-directed N-Acyl-N-Alkyl sulfonamide chemistry allows for rapid modification of a lysine residue proximal to the ligand binding site of a target protein, with a rate constant of ~104 M-1 s-1, comparable to the fastest bioorthogonal chemistry. Despite some off-Target reactions, this method can selectively label both intracellular and membrane-bound endogenous proteins. Moreover, the unique reactivity of N-Acyl-N-Alkyl sulfonamide enables the rational design of a lysine-Targeted covalent inhibitor that shows durable suppression of the activity of Hsp90 in cancer cells. This work provides possibilities to extend the covalent inhibition approach that is currently being reassessed in drug discovery.
Recently many cellular functions have been associated with membraneless organelles, or protein droplets, formed by liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS). Proteins in these droplets often contain RNA-binding domains, but the effects of RNA on LLPS have been controversial. To gain better understanding on the roles of RNA and other macromolecular regulators, here we used Gibbs-ensemble simulations to determine phase diagrams of two-component patchy particles, as models for mixtures of proteins with regulatory components. Protein-like particles have four patches, with attraction strength ϵ PP; regulatory particles experience mutual steric repulsion but have two attractive patches toward proteins, with the strength ϵ PR tunable. At low ϵ PR, the regulator, due to steric repulsion, preferentially partitions in the dispersed phase, thereby displacing the protein into the droplet phase and promoting LLPS. At moderate ϵ PR, the regulator starts to partition and displace the protein in the droplet phase, but only to weaken bonding networks and thereby suppress LLPS. At ϵ PR > ϵ PP, the enhanced bonding ability of the regulator initially promotes LLPS, but at higher amounts, the resulting displacement of the protein suppresses LLPS. These results illustrate how RNA can have disparate effects on LLPS, thus able to perform diverse functions in different organelles.
Heart is a dynamic organ that undergoes remodeling in response to both physiological and pathological stimuli. One of the fundamental cellular processes that facilitates changes in the size and shape of this muscular organ is the protein synthesis. Traditionally changes in cardiac protein synthesis levels were measured by radiolabeled tracers. However, these methods are often cumbersome and suffer from radioactive risk. Recently a nonradioactive method for detecting protein synthesis under in vitro conditions called the Surface Sensing of Translation (SUnSET) was described in cell lines of mouse dendrites and T cells. In this work, we provide multiple lines of evidence that the SUnSET assay can be applied to reliably detect changes in protein synthesis both in isolated neonatal primary cardiomyocytes and heart. We successfully tracked the changes in protein synthesis by western blotting as well as immunohistochemical variants of the SUnSET assay. Applying the SUnSET assay, we measured the cardiac protein synthesis during the different ages of mice. Further, we successfully tracked the increase in cardiac protein synthesis during different stages of a well-established model for pathological hypertrophy. Overall, we propose SUnSET assay as a simple, reliable and robust method to measure protein synthesis in the cardiac milieu.
The proteasome is a complex protease critical for protein quality control and cell regulation, and its dysfunction is associated with cancer and other diseases. However, the mechanisms that control proteasome activity in normal and malignant cells remain unclear. Here we report that TRIM11 enhances degradation of aberrant and normal regulatory proteins, and augments overall rate of proteolysis. Mechanistically, TRIM11 binds to both the proteasome and USP14, a deubiquitinase that prematurely removes ubiquitins from proteasome-bound substrates and also noncatalytically inhibits the proteasome, and precludes their association, thereby increasing proteasome activity. TRIM11 promotes cell survival and is upregulated upon heat shock. Moreover, TRIM11 is required for tumor growth, and increased expression of TRIM11 correlates with poor clinical survival. These findings identify TRIM11 as an important activator of the proteasome, define a pathway that adjusts proteasome activity, and reveal a mechanism by which tumor cells acquire higher degradative power to support oncogenic growth.
Type IX secretion system (T9SS), exclusively present in the Bacteroidetes phylum, has been studied mainly in Flavobacterium johnsoniae and Porphyromonas gingivalis. Among the 18 genes, essential for T9SS function, a group of four, porK-N (P. gingivalis) or gldK-N (F. johnsoniae) belongs to a co-transcribed operon that expresses the T9SS core membrane complex. The central component of this complex, PorM (or GldM), is anchored in the inner membrane by a trans-membrane helix and interacts through the outer membrane PorK-N complex. There is a complete lack of available atomic structures for any component of T9SS, including the PorKLMN complex. Here we report the crystal structure of the GldM and PorM periplasmic domains. Dimeric GldM and PorM, each contain four domains of ~180-Å length that span most of the periplasmic space. These and previously reported results allow us to propose a model of the T9SS core membrane complex as well as its functional behavior.
Trithorax group protein MLL5 is an important epigenetic modifier that controls cell cycle progression, chromatin architecture maintenance, and hematopoiesis. However, whether MLL5 has a role in innate antiviral immunity is largely unknown. Here we show that MLL5 suppresses the RIG-I-mediated anti-viral immune response. Mll5-deficient mice infected with vesicular stomatitis virus show enhanced anti-viral innate immunity, reduced morbidity, and viral load. Mechanistically, a fraction of MLL5 located in the cytoplasm interacts with both RIG-I and its E3 ubiquitin ligase STUB1, which promotes K48-linked polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of RIG-I. MLL5 deficiency attenuates the RIG-I and STUB1 association, reducing K48-linked polyubiquitination and accumulation of RIG-I protein in cells. Upon virus infection, nuclear MLL5 protein translocates from the nucleus to the cytoplasm inducing STUB1-mediated degradation of RIG-I. Our study uncovers a previously unrecognized role for MLL5 in antiviral innate immune responses and suggests a new target for controlling viral infection.
The membrane insertase YidC catalyzes the entrance of newly synthesized proteins into the lipid bilayer. As an integral membrane protein itself, YidC can be found as a monomer, a dimer or also as a member of the holotranslocase SecYEGDF-YajC-YidC. To investigate whether the dimeric YidC is functional and whether two copies cooperate to insert a single substrate, we constructed a fusion protein where two copies of YidC are connected by a short linker peptide. The 120 kDa protein is stable and functional as it supports the membrane insertion of the M13 procoat protein, the C-tailed protein SciP and the fusion protein Pf3-Lep. Mutations that inhibit either protomer do not inactivate the insertase and rather keep it functional. When both protomers are defective, the substrate proteins accumulate in the cytoplasm. This suggests that the dimeric YidC operates as two insertases. Consistent with this, we show that the dimeric YidC can bind two substrate proteins simultaneously, suggesting that YidC indeed functions as a monomer.
Albumin and IgG have remarkably long serum half-lives due to pH-dependent FcRn-mediated cellular recycling that rescues both ligands from intracellular degradation. Furthermore, increase in half-lives of IgG and albumin-based therapeutics has the potential to improve their efficacies, but there is a great need for robust methods for screening of relative FcRn-dependent recycling ability. Here, we report on a novel human endothelial cell-based recycling assay (HERA) that can be used for such pre-clinical screening. In HERA, rescue from degradation depends on FcRn, and engineered ligands are recycled in a manner that correlates with their half-lives in human FcRn transgenic mice. Thus, HERA is a novel cellular assay that can be used to predict how FcRn-binding proteins are rescued from intracellular degradation.
RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) play important and essential roles in eukaryotic gene expression regulating splicing, localization, translation, and stability of mRNAs. We describe ultraviolet crosslinking and affinity purification (uvCLAP), an easy-to-use, robust, reproducible, and high-throughput method to determine in vivo targets of RBPs. uvCLAP is fast and does not rely on radioactive labeling of RNA. We investigate binding of 15 RBPs from fly, mouse, and human cells to test the method's performance and applicability. Multiplexing of signal and control libraries enables straightforward comparison of samples. Experiments for most proteins achieve high enrichment of signal over background. A point mutation and a natural splice isoform that change the RBP subcellular localization dramatically alter target selection without changing the targeted RNA motif, showing that compartmentalization of RBPs can be used as an elegant means to generate RNA target specificity.
Expression of the RNA-binding protein Csde1 (Cold shock domain protein e1) is strongly upregulated during erythropoiesis compared to other hematopoietic lineages. Csde1 expression is impaired in the severe congenital anemia Diamond Blackfan Anemia (DBA), and reduced expression of Csde1 in healthy erythroblasts impaired their proliferation and differentiation. To investigate the cellular pathways controlled by Csde1 in erythropoiesis, we identified the transcripts that physically associate with Csde1 in erythroid cells. These mainly encoded proteins involved in ribogenesis, mRNA translation and protein degradation, but also proteins associated with the mitochondrial respiratory chain and mitosis. Crispr/Cas9-mediated deletion of the first cold shock domain of Csde1 affected RNA expression and/or protein expression of Csde1-bound transcripts. For instance, protein expression of Pabpc1 was enhanced while Pabpc1 mRNA expression was reduced indicating more efficient translation of Pabpc1 followed by negative feedback on mRNA stability. Overall, the effect of reduced Csde1 function on mRNA stability and translation of Csde1-bound transcripts was modest. Clones with complete loss of Csde1, however, could not be generated. We suggest that Csde1 is involved in feed-back control in protein homeostasis and that it dampens stochastic changes in mRNA expression.
The emergence of Variola virus-like viruses by natural evolution of zoonotic Orthopoxviruses, like Cowpox virus (CPXV), is a global health threat. The proteasome is essential for poxvirus replication, making the viral components interacting with the ubiquitin-proteasome system attractive antiviral targets. We show that proteasome inhibition impairs CPXV replication by prevention of uncoating, suggesting that uncoating is mediated by proteasomal degradation of viral core proteins. Although Orthopoxvirus particles contain considerable amounts of ubiquitin, distinct modification sites are largely unknown. Therefore, for the first time, we analyzed globally ubiquitination sites in CPXV mature virion proteins using LC-MS/MS. Identification of 137 conserved sites in 54 viral proteins among five CPXV strains revealed extensive ubiquitination of structural core proteins. Moreover, since virions contained primarily K48-linked polyubiquitin, we hypothesized that core proteins are modified accordingly. However, quantitative analysis of ubiquitinated CPXV proteins early in infection showed no proteasomal degradation of core proteins. Instead, our data indicate that the recently suggested proteasomal regulation of the uncoating factor E5 is a prerequisite for uncoating. Expanding our understanding of poxvirus uncoating and elucidating a multitude of novel ubiquitination sites in poxvirus proteins, the present study verifies the major biological significance of ubiquitin in poxvirus infection.
The emergence of >300 serovars of Leptospira confounded the use of generalized bacterin, the whole cell lysate, as vaccines to control leptospirosis. Because of substantial genetic and geographic heterogeneity among circulating serovars, one vaccine strain per serovar cannot be efficacious against all the serovars. We have performed heterologous DNA prime-protein boost vaccination challenge studies in hamsters using in vivo expressed, leptospiral recombinase A (RecA) and flagellar hook associated protein (FliD). We prepared the monovalent recombinant protein, plasmid DNA, and DNA prime protein boost adjuvant vaccines. The whole cell bacterin served as a control. Our data show that (i) RecA and FliD have multiple immunogenic B and T-cell epitopes with highly conserved domains among most prevalent pathogenic Leptospira spp., (ii) humoral and cell mediated immune responses were induced remarkably, (iii) provides significant protection against homologous (Autumnalis strain N2) and cross-clade heterologous (Canicola strain PAI-1) challenge infection for the heterologous prime-protein boost (91-100%) and, the DNA vaccine (75-83%). Recombinant protein vaccine shows only partial protection (58-66%), (iv) RecA prime-protein boost vaccine shows sterilizing immunity, with heterologous protection. This RecA/FliD prime-protein boost strategy holds potential for vaccination against animal leptospirosis and for a better control of zoonotic transmission.
Exosomal miRNA transfer is a mechanism for cell-cell communication that is important in the immune response, in the functioning of the nervous system and in cancer. Syncrip/hnRNPQ is a highly conserved RNA-binding protein that mediates the exosomal partition of a set of miRNAs. Here, we report that Syncrip's amino-terminal domain, which was previously thought to mediate protein-protein interactions, is a cryptic, conserved and sequence-specific RNA-binding domain, designated NURR (N-terminal unit for RNA recognition). The NURR domain mediates the specific recognition of a short hEXO sequence defining Syncrip exosomal miRNA targets, and is coupled by a non-canonical structural element to Syncrip's RRM domains to achieve high-affinity miRNA binding. As a consequence, Syncrip-mediated selection of the target miRNAs implies both recognition of the hEXO sequence by the NURR domain and binding of the RRM domains 5′ to this sequence. This structural arrangement enables Syncrip-mediated selection of miRNAs with different seed sequences.
Mutations in Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) cause autoimmune sequelae including colitis. Yet, how WASP mediates mucosal homeostasis is not fully understood. Here we show that WASP-mediated regulation of anti-inflammatory macrophages is critical for mucosal homeostasis and immune tolerance. The generation and function of anti-inflammatory macrophages are defective in both human and mice in the absence of WASP. Expression of WASP specifically in macrophages, but not in dendritic cells, is critical for regulation of colitis development. Importantly, transfer of WT anti-inflammatory macrophages prevents the development of colitis. DOCK8-deficient macrophages phenocopy the altered macrophage properties associated with WASP deficiency. Mechanistically, we show that both WASP and DOCK8 regulates macrophage function by modulating IL-10-dependent STAT3 phosphorylation. Overall, our study indicates that anti-inflammatory macrophage function and mucosal immune tolerance require both WASP and DOCK8, and that IL-10 signalling modulates a WASP-DOCK8 complex.
Autophagy is essential for eukaryotic cell homeostasis and can perform both anti-viral and pro-viral roles depending on the kinds of viruses, cell types and cell environment. Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome phlebovirus (SFTSV) is a newly discovered tick-borne virus in the Phenuiviridae family that causes a severe hemorrhagic fever disease in East Asia. In this study we determined interactions between SFTSV and autophagy. Our results showed that LC3-II (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3-II) protein accumulated from 4 h to 24 h after SFTSV infection compared to mock-infected Vero cells, and the use of E64d and pepstatin A did not affect the expression of LC3-II protein, which indicated that the increased LC3-II may be the result of inhibition of autophagic degradation caused by SFTSV infection. However, knockdown of LC3B promotes SFTSV replication, which indicated a negative role of LC3B protein in SFTSV replication. We also detected co-localization of SFTSV non-structure (NSs) protein with LC3B, p62 and Lamp2b respectively in SFTSV infected Vero cells, which indicated the possibility of selective autophagy or chaperone-mediated autophagy involving in SFTSV infection. Our results indicated that SFTSV infection promotes LC3 accumulation and several proteins of the autophagy pathway co-localize with NSs protein during SFTSV infection.
Automated methods for NMR structure determination of proteins are continuously becoming more robust. However, current methods addressing larger, more complex targets rely on analyzing 6-10 complementary spectra, suggesting the need for alternative approaches. Here, we describe 4D-CHAINS/autoNOE-Rosetta, a complete pipeline for NOE-driven structure determination of medium- to larger-sized proteins. The 4D-CHAINS algorithm analyzes two 4D spectra recorded using a single, fully protonated protein sample in an iterative ansatz where common NOEs between different spin systems supplement conventional through-bond connectivities to establish assignments of sidechain and backbone resonances at high levels of completeness and with a minimum error rate. The 4D-CHAINS assignments are then used to guide automated assignment of long-range NOEs and structure refinement in autoNOE-Rosetta. Our results on four targets ranging in size from 15.5 to 27.3 kDa illustrate that the structures of proteins can be determined accurately and in an unsupervised manner in a matter of days.
Bovine tuberculosis is a disease caused by Mycobacterium bovis (M. bovis) that leads to great economic losses in cattle production. The discovery of a reasonable bioagent to reduce M. bovis infection risk and environment contamination becomes significant and urgent. Previous study reported that human β-defensin-3 (HBD3) participated in Mycobacterial immunity and was recognized as a suitable candidate reagent. However, its minimal inhibitory concentration to M. bovis is not yet reported. In this study, we first purified HBD3 protein by recombinant-DNA technology and prokaryotic expression system. Subsequently, anti-bacterial tests were used to evaluate the basic bioactivity of the protein. Results revealed that recombinant HBD3 (rHBD3) protein inhibits Staphylococcus multiplication but not the host Escherichia coli. The growth curve of M. bovis showed that rHBD3 protein controls the proliferation of M. bovis in 20 μg/ml concentration. In addition, rHBD3 protein-incubated M. bovis exhibited reduced infectivity to alveolar epithelial cells and macrophages. In conclusion, the expression of rHBD3 protein is a potential ideal bio-regent for reducing M. bovis infection.
The NuA4/TIP60 acetyltransferase complex is required for gene regulation, DNA repair and cell cycle progression. The limited structural information impeded understanding of NuA4/TIP60 assembly and regulatory mechanism. Here, we report the 4.7 Å cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure of a NuA4/TIP60 TEEAA assembly (Tra1, Eaf1, Eaf5, actin and Arp4) and the 7.6 Å cryo-EM structure of a TEEAA-piccolo assembly (Esa1, Epl1, Yng2 and Eaf6). The Tra1 and Eaf1 constitute the assembly scaffold. The Eaf1 SANT domain tightly binds to the LBE and FATC domains of Tra1 by ionic interactions. The actin/Arp4 peripherally associates with Eaf1 HSA domain. The Eaf5/7/3 (TINTIN) and piccolo modules largely pack against the FAT and HEAT repeats of Tra1 and their association depends on Eaf1 N-terminal and HSA regions, respectively. These structures elucidate the detailed architecture and molecular interactions between NuA4 subunits and offer exciting insights into the scaffolding and regulatory mechanisms of Tra1 pseudokinase.
Increasing evidence suggests that long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) play crucial roles in various biological processes. However, little is known about the effects of lncRNAs on autophagy. Here we report that a lncRNA, termed cardiac autophagy inhibitory factor (CAIF), suppresses cardiac autophagy and attenuates myocardial infarction by targeting p53-mediated myocardin transcription. Myocardin expression is upregulated upon H2O2 and ischemia/reperfusion, and knockdown of myocardin inhibits autophagy and attenuates myocardial infarction. p53 regulates cardiomyocytes autophagy and myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury by regulating myocardin expression. CAIF directly binds to p53 protein and blocks p53-mediated myocardin transcription, which results in the decrease of myocardin expression. Collectively, our data reveal a novel CAIF-p53-myocardin axis as a critical regulator in cardiomyocyte autophagy, which will be potential therapeutic targets in treatment of defective autophagy-associated cardiovascular diseases.
Measles virus (MeV) remains a major human pathogen, but there are presently no licensed antivirals to treat MeV or other paramyxoviruses. Here, we use cryo-electron tomography (cryo-ET) to elucidate the principles governing paramyxovirus assembly in MeV-infected human cells. The three-dimensional (3D) arrangement of the MeV structural proteins including the surface glycoproteins (F and H), matrix protein (M), and the ribonucleoprotein complex (RNP) are characterized at stages of virus assembly and budding, and in released virus particles. The M protein is observed as an organized two-dimensional (2D) paracrystalline array associated with the membrane. A two-layered F-M lattice is revealed suggesting that interactions between F and M may coordinate processes essential for MeV assembly. The RNP complex remains associated with and in close proximity to the M lattice. In this model, the M lattice facilitates the well-ordered incorporation and concentration of the surface glycoproteins and the RNP at sites of virus assembly.
Protein phosphorylation is an important post-translational modification that can regulate the protein function. The current knowledge on the phosphorylation status of plant oil body (OB) proteins is inadequate. This present study identifies the distinct physiological substrates of Arabidopsis serine/threonine/tyrosine protein kinase (STYK) and its role in seed oil accumulation; the role of Arabidopsis OLE1, a major seed OB protein has also been elucidated. In vitro kinase assay followed by mass spectrometry identifies residue that are phosphorylated by STYK. Further, co-expression of OLE1 and STYK in yeast cells increases the cellular lipid levels and reduces the total lipid when OLE1 was replaced with OLE1T166A. Moreover, in vivo experiments with OB isolated from wild-type and styk knock-out lines show the ability of STYK to phosphorylate distinct OB proteins. OLE1T166A mutant and Arabidopsis styk mutant demonstrate the significant reduction of its substrate phosphorylation. styk mutant line significantly reduces the amount of total seed oil as compared to wild-type seeds. Together, our results provide the evidences that Arabidopsis At2G24360 (STYK) is phosphorylating oil body proteins and the phosphorylation regulates the oil content in Arabidopsis seeds.
CA induced significant structural changes, increased digestibility, and improved functionalities of CS and WPI. Non-covalent association between CA and treated proteins was detected using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), intrinsic tryptophan fluorescence, and ANS-augmented fluorescence. The CA binding affinity for WPI was superior to that for CS as indicated by higher Ksv and lower hydrophobicity. Total sulfhydryl content in CS and WPI decreased, respectively, from 5.4 to 3.2 μmol/g and from 21 to 7.8 μmol/g, and surface hydrophobicity declined by 16.6% and 22.4% with 240 μmol/g CA. Enhanced solubility and foaming capacity of the protein-phenol complex were demonstrated. CA at medium and high concentrations displayed a remarkable synergism of radical scavenging activity with peptides in both protein digests.
Myotonic dystrophy type 1 and type 2 (DM1, DM2) are caused by expansions of CTG and CCTG repeats, respectively. RNAs containing expanded CUG or CCUG repeats interfere with the metabolism of other RNAs through titration of the Muscleblind-like (MBNL) RNA binding proteins. DM2 follows a more favorable clinical course than DM1, suggesting that specific modifiers may modulate DM severity. Here, we report that the rbFOX1 RNA binding protein binds to expanded CCUG RNA repeats, but not to expanded CUG RNA repeats. Interestingly, rbFOX1 competes with MBNL1 for binding to CCUG expanded repeats and overexpression of rbFOX1 partly releases MBNL1 from sequestration within CCUG RNA foci in DM2 muscle cells. Furthermore, expression of rbFOX1 corrects alternative splicing alterations and rescues muscle atrophy, climbing and flying defects caused by expression of expanded CCUG repeats in a Drosophila model of DM2.
The pancrustacean theory groups crustaceans and hexapods (once thought to comprise separate clades within the Arthropoda) into a single clade. A key feature common to all pancrustaceans is their chitinous exoskeleton, with a major contribution by cuticular proteins. Among these, are the CPAP3's, a family of cuticular proteins, first identified in the hexapod Drosophila melanogaster and characterized by an N-terminal signaling peptide and three chitin-binding domains. In this study, CPAP3 proteins were mined from a transcriptomic library of a decapod crustacean, the crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus. Phylogenetic analysis of other CPAP3 proteins from hexapods and other crustaceans showed a high degree of conservation. Characterization of the crayfish proteins, designated CqCPAP3's, suggested a major role for CPAP3'sin cuticle formation. Loss-of-function experiments using RNAi supported such a notion by demonstrating crucial roles for several CqCPAP3 proteins during molting. A putative mode of action for the CqCPAP3 proteins -theoretically binding three chitin strands- was suggested by the structural data obtained from a representative recombinant CqCPAP3. The similarities between the CqCPAP3 proteins and their hexapod homologues further demonstrated common genetic and proteinaceous features of cuticle formation in pancrustaceans, thereby reinforcing the linkage between these two highly important phylogenetic groups.
Within cells, motor and non-motor microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) simultaneously converge on the microtubule. How the binding activities of non-motor MAPs are coordinated and how they contribute to the balance and distribution of motor transport is unknown. Here, we examine the relationship between MAP7 and tau owing to their antagonistic roles in vivo. We find that MAP7 and tau compete for binding to microtubules, and determine a mechanism by which MAP7 displaces tau from the lattice. MAP7 promotes kinesin-based transport in vivo and strongly recruits kinesin-1 to the microtubule in vitro, providing evidence for direct enhancement of motor motility by a MAP. Both MAP7 and tau strongly inhibit kinesin-3 and have no effect on cytoplasmic dynein, demonstrating that MAPs differentially control distinct classes of motors. Overall, these results reveal a general principle for how MAP competition dictates access to the microtubule to determine the correct distribution and balance of motor activity.
A large fraction of the adult population is on lifelong medication for cardiovascular disorders, but the metabolic consequences are largely unknown. This study determines the effects of common anti-hypertensive and lipid lowering drugs on circulating plasma protein biomarkers. We studied 425 proteins in plasma together with anthropometric and lifestyle variables, and the genetic profile in a cross-sectional cohort. We found 8406 covariate-protein associations, and a two-stage GWAS identified 17253 SNPs to be associated with 109 proteins. By computationally removing variation due to lifestyle and genetic factors, we could determine that medication, per se, affected the abundance levels of 35.7% of the plasma proteins. Medication either affected a single, a few, or a large number of protein, and were found to have a negative or positive influence on known disease pathways and biomarkers. Anti-hypertensive or lipid lowering drugs affected 33.1% of the proteins. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors showed the strongest lowering effect by decreasing plasma levels of myostatin. Cell-culture experiments showed that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors reducted myostatin RNA levels. Thus, understanding the effects of lifelong medication on the plasma proteome is important both for sharpening the diagnostic precision of protein biomarkers and in disease management.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), G proteins and adenylyl cyclase (AC) comprise one of the most studied transmembrane cell signaling pathways. However, it is unknown whether the ligand-dependent interactions between these signaling molecules are based on random collisions or the rearrangement of pre-coupled elements in a macromolecular complex. Furthermore, it remains controversial whether a GPCR homodimer coupled to a single heterotrimeric G protein constitutes a common functional unit. Using a peptide-based approach, we here report evidence for the existence of functional pre-coupled complexes of heteromers of adenosine A2A receptor and dopamine D2 receptor homodimers coupled to their cognate Gs and Gi proteins and to subtype 5 AC. We also demonstrate that this macromolecular complex provides the necessary frame for the canonical Gs-Gi interactions at the AC level, sustaining the ability of a Gi-coupled GPCR to counteract AC activation mediated by a Gs-coupled GPCR.
Comparisons were made between SPI and E-SPI concerning their characteristics and effectiveness in complexing with curcumin, along with changes in physicochemical properties, 2,2-diphenyl-1-picryhydrazyl (DPPH[rad])-scavenging capacity and storage stability of curcumin upon complexation. The action of glutaminase did not markedly change SPI structure, but modified some secondary structures, causing greater protein unfolding with more hydrophobic clusters and amino acids exposed. Glutaminase treatment increased DPPH[rad]-scavenging capacity, foaming capacity and stability of SPI. The protein concentration played a role in the changes induced by glutaminase treatment and complexation with curcumin, and 1% protein seemed beneficial (highest DPPH scavenging activity; highest loading amount 10.07%; 98% and >90% curcumin retained in 1%-E-SPI at 4 °C for 2 h and 12 h, respectively). Therefore, glutaminase treatment of SPI before complexation with curcumin appeared to be appropriate.
Accumulation of ubiquitinated protein aggregates is a common pathology associated with a number of neurodegenerative diseases and selective autophagy plays a critical role in their elimination. Although aging-related decreases in protein degradation properties may enhance protein aggregation, it remains unclear whether proteasome dysfunction is indispensable for ubiquitinated-protein aggregation in neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we show that N-oleoyl-dopamine and N-arachidonyl-dopamine, which are endogenous brain substances and belong to the N-acyldopamine (AcylDA) family, generate cellular inclusions through aggresome formation without proteasome inhibition. Although AcylDA itself does not inhibit proteasome activity in vitro, it activates the rearrangement of vimentin distribution to form a vimentin cage surrounding aggresomes and sequesters ubiquitinated proteins in aggresomes. The gene transcription of p62/SQSTM1 was significantly increased by AcylDAs, whereas the transcription of other ubiquitin-dependent autophagy receptors was unaffected. Genetic depletion of p62 resulted in the loss of ubiquitinated-protein sequestration in aggresomes, indicating that p62 is a critical component of aggresomes. Furthermore, AcylDAs accelerate the aggregation of mutant huntingtin exon 1 proteins. These results suggest that aggresome formation does not require proteasome dysfunction and AcylDA-induced aggresome formation may participate in forming cytoplasmic protein inclusions.
Food protein hydrolysates are often produced in unspecific industrial batch processes. The hydrolysates composition underlies process-related fluctuations and therefore the obtained peptide fingerprint and bioactive properties may vary. To overcome this obstacle and enable the production of specific hydrolysates with selected peptides, a ceramic capillary system was developed and characterized for the continuous production of a consistent peptide composition. Therefore, the protease Alcalase was immobilized on the surface of aminosilane modified yttria stabilized zirconia capillaries with a pore size of 1.5 µm. The loading capacity was 0.3 µg enzyme per mg of capillary with a residual enzyme activity of 43%. The enzyme specific peptide fingerprint produced with this proteolytic capillary reactor system correlated with the degree of hydrolysis, which can be controlled over the residence time by adjusting the flow rate. Common food proteins like casein, sunflower and lupin protein isolates were tested for continuous hydrolysis in the developed reactor system. The peptide formation was investigated by high-performance liquid chromatography. Various trends were found for the occurrence of specific peptides. Some are just intermediately occurring, while others cumulate by time. Thus, the developed continuous reactor system enables the production of specific peptides with desired bioactive properties.
Polymer thin films are generally employed as coatings on implants to prevent protein adsorption. Polymer chain mobility and surface softness have been found to contribute to the protein resistance, but also bring film instability in a liquid protein medium. We investigated the protein resistance ability of three low-Tg polymers, including hydrophobic polymers polyisoprene (PI), poly(n-butyl methacrylate) (PnBMA) and hydrophilic polyethylene oxide (PEO), by overcoming the instability issue with crosslinking. We found that the Tgs of PI and PEO can be increased to around 0 °C after crosslinking. The remained strong chain mobility of both films can still resist protein adsorption regardless the hydrophobicity, yet greatly increases the film stability under an aqueous circumstance. The PnBMA film increased its Tg to around room temperature after crosslinking, which deteriorated the protein-resistance ability having the surface covered by BSA molecules. Our results support that the chain mobility of a polymer film plays an important role in resisting protein adsorption due to the increased entropy associated with more mobile polymer chains. By tune the degree of crosslinking, the stability of polymer in aqueous environment can be increased while the protein resistant ability can be remained. Our results provide a new strategy to design polymer materials for effective antifouling.
Soil microbial communities have been shown to vary across many spatial scales, yet while variability exists between samples closely located in the same soil, variation between soils of different ecosystems is larger, creating biogeographic trends. Herein, thirty publically-available metagenomes from 11 globally distributed ecosystems were selected. These metagenomes were clustered by biome (i.e. forest, grasslands, tundra, semiarid and desert) based on morphoclimatic features. Protein biosynthesis, central carbohydrate metabolism, and antibiotic resistance were the most statistically different SEED subsystems among biome groups. CAZy-based annotation revealed that genes related to biomass degradation, sucrose and starch metabolism, and cell wall biosynthesis were overrepresented in forest and grasslands soils. As expected, desiccation and other stress resistance genes were prevalent in desert and semiarid soils. Antibiotic Resistance Genes (ARGs) were more abundant in forest and grassland soils, and multidrug efflux pumps were the most abundant ARG class. Heat Shock Proteins (HSPs) were generally more abundant in tundra, semiarid and desert. However, HSP60 and HSP20, predominantly from Archaea, were enriched in the Saline Desert soils. These results suggest that while a core microbiome and functional potential exist in all studied soils, local environmental conditions select for enrichment of specific functions important for survival in a given ecosystem.
β-Carboline moieties are important structural subunits which occur as components of many biologically interesting molecules for antitumor activity. The field of computer aided drug design and discovery (CADD) is a rapidly growing area that has seen many successes in the last few years. Through molecular docking, the binding mode and affinity of the protein-inhibitor complex formed is estimated which in turn helps in the discovery of new drug “Leads”. The anticancer potential of β-Carboline analogues was proven by various targeted mechanisms. In this review, we summarise the binding mode and interactions of β-Carboline derivatives towards the various anticancer targets which advantages the discovery of this scaffold into antitumor therapy.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is an often-fatal vascular disease of unclear molecular origins. The pulmonary vascular remodelling which occurs in PH is characterised by elevated vasomotor tone and a pro-proliferative state, ultimately leading to right ventricular dysfunction and heart failure. Guided in many respects by prior evidence from cancer biology, recent investigations have identified metabolic aberrations as crucial components of the disease process in both the pulmonary vessels and the right ventricle. Given the need for improved diagnostic and therapeutic options for PH, the development or repurposing of metabolic tracers and medications could provide an effective avenue for preventing or even reversing disease progression. In this review, we describe the metabolic mechanisms that are known to be dysregulated in PH; we explore the advancing diagnostic testing and imaging modalities that are being developed to improve diagnostic capability for this disease; and we discuss emerging drugs for PH which target these metabolic pathways.
The NSAID diclofenac is controversially discussed with respect to its environmental relevance. Since further information is need to assess whether diclofenac should be included as substance of priority in the EU water framework directive, we investigated the impact of this analgesic on the embryonic development of brown trout (Salmo trutta f. fario) from fertilized egg until the end of sac-fry stage and studied effects in juvenile fish six months post hatch. Embryos were exposed to five test concentrations (0.1, 0.5, 1, 10, 100 μg/L) over 127 days at 7 °C. None of the treatments affected mortality, hatching, development or heart rate. Six months old juveniles exposed to five concentrations (0.1, 1, 10, 100, 200 μg/L) over 25 days at 7 °C, however, showed increased mortality, reaching significance at 100 μg/L. Furthermore, a significantly higher proportion of juvenile animals bore injuries at concentrations higher 10 μg/L. Neither the levels of the stress protein Hsp70, nor the amount of lipid peroxides was affected by any of the treatments. Histological analyses of gill, liver and kidney revealed visible tissue reactions in fish from all experimental groups. Histological responses in livers of diclofenac-exposed fish outstripped the status of laboratory control fish, particularly when exposed to the two highest concentrations. Chemical analyses of fish muscle tissue revealed concentration-dependent uptake of DCF into the animal, but no relevant bioconcentration. Our study supports earlier findings indicating a lower sensitivity of trout early life stages compared to older individuals, suggesting that studies for risk assessment of diclofenac should predominantly focus on later life stages. Furthermore, fish mortality was found to increase with rising diclofenac concentrations, and the lowest observed effect concentration of 10 μg/L on the organismic level emphasises the classification of diclofenac as a micropollutant that requires close attention.
Plastic particles have been proven to be abundant in the aquatic environment, raising concerns about their potential toxic effects. In the present study, we determined the bioaccumulation potential of bisphenol A (BPA) in adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) in the absence and presence of nano-sized plastic particles (nanoplastics, NPPs). Results show that BPA can accumulate in the viscera, gill, head and muscle of zebrafish with 85, 43, 20, and 3 μg/g ww after 1 d exposure. NPPs were also found to accumulate in different tissues of the fish. Relative equilibrium was reached after 1 d exposure in different tissues with 39 to 636 mg/kg ww. Co-exposure of NPPs and BPA led to a 2.2 and 2.6-fold significant increment of BPA uptake in the head and viscera, if compared with BPA alone treatment after 3 d exposure. As such, we further investigated several neurotoxic biomarker alterations in the fish head. It was found that either BPA or NPPs can cause myelin basic protein (MBP)/gene up-regulation in the central nervous system (CNS); meanwhile, both contaminants exhibited significant inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, which is a well-known representative biomarker for neurotoxicity. Moreover, for the co-exposure treatment, biomarkers of myeline and tubulin protein/gene expressions, dopamine content, and the mRNA expression of mesencephalic astrocyte derived neurotrophic factor (MANF) were all significantly up-regulated, suggesting that an enhanced neurotoxic effects in both CNS and dopaminergic system occurred. However, AChE activity was no more inhibited in the co-exposure treatment, which implies that solely AChE measurement may not be sufficient to identify neurotoxic effects in the cholinergic system. Overall, the present study demonstrates that the presence of NPPs can increase BPA bioavailability and cause neurotoxicity in adult zebrafish.
The pathobiology of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is complex and incompletely understood. Although three pathogenic pathways have been relatively well characterised, it is widely accepted that dysfunction in a multitude of other cellular processes is likely to play a critical role in driving the development of PAH. Currently available therapies, which all target one of the three well-characterised pathways, provide significant benefits for patients; however, PAH remains a progressive and ultimately fatal disease. The development of drugs to target alternative pathogenic pathways is, therefore, an attractive proposition and one that may complement existing treatment regimens to improve outcomes for patients. Considerable research has been undertaken to identify the role of the less well-understood pathways and in this review we will highlight some of the key discoveries and the potential for utility as therapeutic targets.
K. Welfare & Pharmascope Foundation. To evaluate the antidiabetic potential of ethanolic extract of Rhynchosia suaveolens (L.F.) DC (EERS) in Streptazotocin induced diabetic rats. The Preliminary Phytochemical analysis was done by standard laboratory methods and acute toxicity studies were performed by OECD test guide lines 423. The present study, the hypoglycaemic effect of ethanolic extract of Rhynchosia suaveolens (L.F.) DC was evaluated by using streptazotocin (STZ) induced diabetic rats at doses of 100 and 200 mg/kg p.o. daily for 28 days. The effect of extracts on diabetic rats in body weight, blood glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides, serum protein, albumin, alkaline phosphates, SGOT, SGPT, serum creatinine and urea contents were analysed. EERS shown significant (P < 0.01) reduction in blood glucose. EERS treatment significantly increase the serum protein, albumin, HDL-C, liver glycogen. EERS also significantly reduced in SGOT, SGPT, ALP, serum creatinine, urea, cholesterol, triglycerides LDL-C and AIP. Histopathology of pancreas in EERS treated group showed regeneration of β- cells. The results of the study showed that EERS exerted Posses significant antidiabetic activity in STZ induced diabetic rats which justifying its traditional use.
Inefficient use of fertilizers by crops increases the risk of nutrient leaching from agro-ecosystems, resulting in economic loss and environmental contamination. We investigated how ground-level ozone affects the efficiency by which wheat used applied nitrogen (N) fertilizer to produce grain protein (NEP, N efficiency with respect to protein yield) and grain yield (NEY, N efficiency with respect to grain yield) across a large number of open-top chamber field experiments. Our results show significant negative ozone effects on NEP and NEY, both for a larger data set obtained from data mining (21 experiments, 70 treatments), and a subset of data for which stomatal ozone flux estimates were available (7 experiments, 22 treatments). For one experiment, we report new data on N content of different above-ground plant fractions as well as grain K and P content. Our analysis of the combined dataset demonstrates that the grain yield return for a certain investment in N fertilizer is reduced by ozone. Results from the experiment with more detailed data further show that translocation of accumulated N from straw and leaves to grains is significantly and negatively affected by ozone, and that ozone decreases fertilizer efficiency also for K and P. As a result of lower N fertilization efficiency, ozone causes a risk of increased N losses from agroecosystems, e.g. through nitrate leaching and nitrous oxide emissions, a hitherto neglected negative effect of ozone. This impact of ozone on the N cycle implies that society is facing a dilemma where it either (i) accepts increased N pollution and counteracts ozone-induced yield reductions by increasing fertilization or (ii) counteracts N pollution under elevated ozone by reducing fertilization, accepting further yield loss adding to the direct effect of ozone on yield.
The encrustation and induced infection severely impact on the therapeutic effectiveness and service life of urinary stents due to the fast formation of conditioning film on urinary stents after implantation. The composition and properties of conditioning film have great influence on antifouling properties of stent materials. In our previous work, we modified polyurethane films by chondroitin sulfate (PU-CS) with different CS grafting densities to verify its anti-fouling properties. To obtain the in-depth understanding of encrustation on urinary stents, we investigated the impact of the composition and properties of conditioning film on the following inorganic salt deposition and bacteria adhesion in urine. The results showed that quantity of proteins and polysaccharides in conditioning films, and the roughness, water contact angle and zeta potential of PU-CSs covered with corresponding conditioning film decreased with the increase of CS grafting density on PU films.PU-CS(3) with highest CS grafting density (3.70 g/cm2) had the highest bacteria inhibition rate and least inorganic salt deposition among the PU-CSs in artificial urine. Moreover, inorganic salts depositing on the PU-CS(3) were less and smaller than those on other films. Bacteria were not detectable until day 21 in real urine. Meanwhile, the pH value was elevated. The results suggested that the component of conditioning films was more important than other surface properties such as hydrophilicity, zeta potential and roughness for inorganic salt deposition and bacteria adhesion. Moreover, the anti-encrustation properties of the surface was promoted by proteins and inhibited by polysaccharides.
After years of standard care prescribed to cancer patients without any selection except the primary site and histology of the tumour, the era of precision medicine has revolutionised cancer care. Personalised medicine refers to the selection of patients for specific treatment based on the presence of specific biomarkers which indicate sensitivity to corresponding targeted therapies and/or lower toxicity risk, such that patients will have the greatest chance of deriving benefit from the treatments. Here, we review personalised medicine for nonsmall cell lung cancer.
The effect of the Ethanolic extract of Euphorbia thymifolia Linn (EEET) against ethylene glycol induced urolithiasis in albino rats is summarized in this study. Lithiasis was induced in rats by administrating 0.75% ethylene glycol in drinking water for 28 days and was manifested by high Urinary calcium, phosphate, oxalate, protein, uric acid, creatinine and low urinary magnesium Content. The EEET was administered in 250 & 500 mg/kg body weight orally for 28 days along with 0.75% ethylene glycol. Results revealed that Urinary calcium, phosphate, oxalate, protein, uric acid, creatinine was reduced and urinary magnesium level was elevated in diseased group. It also increased the urine volume, thereby reducing the tendency for crystallization. The histopathological studies confirmed the induction of lithiasis as microcrystal deposition was observed in section of kidney from animals treated with ethylene glycol. This was reduced, however, after treatment with the extract. These observations enable us to conclude that EEET is effective against ethylene-glycol induced urolithiasis in albino rats.
Myopia is the most common cause of visual impairment worldwide. Genetic and environmental factors contribute to the development of myopia. Studies on the molecular genetics of myopia are well established and have implicated the important role of genetic factors. With linkage analysis, association studies, sequencing analysis, and experimental myopia studies, many of the loci and genes associated with myopia have been identified. Thus far, there has been no systemic review of the loci and genes related to non-syndromic and syndromic myopia based on the different approaches. Such a systemic review of the molecular genetics of myopia will provide clues to identify additional plausible genes for myopia and help us to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying myopia. This paper reviews recent genetic studies on myopia, summarizes all possible reported genes and loci related to myopia, and suggests implications for future studies on the molecular genetics of myopia.
Platelet-derived growth factors (PDGFs) and their receptors (PDGFRs) play a fundamental role in the embryonic development of the lung. Aberrant PDGF signalling has been documented convincingly in a large variety of pulmonary diseases, including idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension, lung cancer and lung fibrosis. Targeting PDGF signalling has been proven to be effective in these diseases. In clinical practice, the most effective way to block PDGF signalling is to inhibit the activity of the intracellular PDGFR kinases. Although the mechanism of action of such drugs is not specific for PDGF signalling, the medications have a broad therapeutic index that allows clinical use. The safety profile and therapeutic opportunities of these and future medications that target PDGFs and PDGFRs are reviewed.
We report an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation procedure optimized for ‘Kyoho’ that is a major table grapevine cultivar in Korea, and its transgenic plants with antifreeze protein gene of carrot (DcAFP). The full length of DcAFP coding region in accordance with the previous report was isolated from young leaves of carrot and recombined into a plant transformation vector. Ethylene inhibitors such as silver nitrate and aminoethoxyvinylglycin (AVG) supplemented in a co-cultivation medium distinctly increased frequency of shoot regeneration when explants were sub-cultured in a selection medium: particularly ten-fold higher in treatment with 0.1 mg/L AVG than one without ethylene inhibitor. Among various antibiotics and their concentrations, the combination of 150 mg/L cefotaxime plus 150 mg/L ClavamoxTM was selected for elimination of Agrobacterium cells in addition to minimization of adverse effect on shoot regeneration, while 50 mg/L kanamycin monosulfate effectively suppressed regeneration of non-transgenic shoots. Applying the elucidated culture condition, we finally obtained a total of 5 transgenic ‘Kyoho’ plantlets with DcAFP, of which integration with the grapevine genome and transcription was confirmed by nucleic acid analyses.
K. Welfare & Pharmascope Foundation. The current study is focused on determination of organoleptic character and analyses of physicochemical, fluorescence, phytochemical and GC-MS of shade dried Ampelocissus araneosa leaves. Through the study, the extractive value of ethanol was found to be higher than ethyl acetate and the % sulphated ash value was higher followed by water soluble ash value. The value of loss on drying indicates the presence of less amount of moisture and also results of pH of suspensions (1% and 10%) of Ampelocissus araneosa showed within the range of 5-7 that indicates the suitability of plant for the human usage. The appearance of green fluorescence shows the existence of chromophore containing phytoconstituents. The ethanolic extract of Ampelocissus araneosa shows the existence of carbohydrate, steroids, alkaloids, glycosides, tannins, flavonoids and terpenoids, and absence of gums and mucilage, sterols, proteins, and phenols. The GC-MS analysis confirms the presence of 12 phytoconstituents.
Plant materials are invaluable sources in treatment of various diseases and research on certain plants has opened the way to development of various therapeutic agents. In the present study, the chloroform extract from the flowers of Gloriosa superba which belongs to the Colchicaceae family was subjected to column chromatography and it led to the isolation of myristyl alcohol which was identified by spectral methods. Eventhough G. superba exhibited a large number of biological activities, the acetylcholinesterase inhibition activity was not yet explored. The chloroform extract was studied for the acetylcholine esterase inhibition activity which showed an IC50 value of 14μg/ml. This indicates that the chloroform extract of Gloriosa supera exhibits a strong AChE inhibition activity. Two compounds very often isolated from this genus colchinine and glorisine were subjected to molecular docking studies against the bacterial proteins 1UAG, 2X5O, 3UDI and 3TYE. It exhibited very good scores involving conventional H-bonding, alkyl, pi-alkyl and various other interactions.
Exposure to inorganic arsenic (inAs), a potent toxicant, occurs primarily through ingestion of food and water. The efficiency with which it is methylated to mono and dimethyl arsenicals (MMA and DMA) affects toxicity. Folate, vitamins B12 and B6 are required for 1C metabolism, and studies have found that higher levels of these nutrients increase methylation capacity and are associated with protection against adverse health effects from inAs, especially in undernourished populations. Our aim was to determine whether 1C-related nutrients are associated with greater inAs methylation capacity in a general population sample with overall adequate nutrition and low levels of As exposure. Univariate and multivariable regression models were used to evaluate the relationship of dietary and blood nutrients to urinary As methylation in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2003–2004. Outcome variables were the percent of the sum of inAs and methylated As species (inAs + MMA + DMA) excreted as inAs, MMA, and DMA, and the ratio of MMA:DMA. In univariate models, dietary folate, vitamin B6 and protein intake were associated with lower urinary inAs% and greater DMA% in adults (≥ 18 years), with similar trends in children (6–18). In adjusted models, vitamin B6 intake (p = 0.011) and RBC folate (p = 0.036) were associated with lower inAs%, while dietary vitamin B12 was associated with higher inAs% (p = 0.002) and lower DMA% (p = 0.030). Total plasma homocysteine was associated with higher MMA% (p = 0.004) and lower DMA% (p = 0.003), but not with inAs%; other blood nutrients showed no association with urinary As. Although effect size is small, these findings suggest that 1C nutrients can influence inAs methylation and potentially play an indirect role in reducing toxicity in a general population sample.
GY2B. However, genes regulation associated with biodegradation and biological processes in response to the presence of surfactants, remains unclear. In this study, comparative transcriptome analysis was conducted to observe the gene expression of GY2B during phenanthrene biodegradation in the presence and absence of Tween80. A diverse set of genes was regulated by Tween80, leading to increased biodegradation of phenanthrene by GY2B: (i) Tween80 increased expression of genes related to H+ transport in the plasma membrane to provide a driving force (i.e., ATP) for accelerating transmembrane transport of phenanthrene with increasing Tween80 concentrations, thereby enhancing the uptake and degradation of phenanthrene by GY2B; (ii) Tween80 (1 and 8 CMC) promoted intracellular biodegradation of phenanthrene by stimulating expression of genes encoding dioxygenases and monooxygenase, increasing expression of genes involved in intracellular metabolic processes (e.g., TCA cycle); and (iii) Tween80 likely increased GY2B vitality and growth by inducing expression of genes associated with ABC transporters and protein transport, regulating genes involved in other biological processes (e.g., transcription, translation).
The first objective of this work was to prepare biocompatible magnetic polymer microspheres with reactive functional groups that could withstand nonspecific protein adsorption from biological media. Carboxyl group-containing magnetic poly(2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate) (mgt.PHEMA) microspheres ∼4 μm in size were prepared by multistage swelling polymerization, precipitation of iron oxide inside their pores, and coating with an α-methoxy-ω-amino poly(ethylene glycol) (CH3O-PEG750-NH2 or CH3O-PEG5,000-NH2)/α-amino-ω-t-Boc-amino poly(ethylene glycol) (H2N-PEG5,000-NH-t-Boc) mixture. The mgt.PHEMA@PEG microspheres contained ∼10 μmol COOH per g. Biocompatibility of the particles was evaluated by their treatment with human embryonic kidney cells of the HEK293 line. The microspheres did not interfere with the growth of these cells, suggesting that the particles can be considered non-toxic. A second goal of this study was to address on the interaction of the developed microspheres with macrophages that commonly eliminate foreign microbodies appearing in organisms. Murine J774.2 macrophages (J774.2) were cultured in the presence of the neat and PEGylated microspheres for 2 h. Mgt.PHEMA@PEG5,000 microspheres significantly adhered to the surface of J774.2 macrophages but were minimally engulfed. Due to these properties, the mgt.PHEMA@PEG microspheres might be useful for application in drug delivery systems and monitoring of the efficiency of phagocytosis.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients are at increased risk of developing nonsmall cell lung carcinoma, irrespective of their smoking history. Although the mechanisms behind this observation are not clear, established drivers of carcinogenesis in COPD include oxidative stress and sustained chronic inflammation. Mitochondria are critical in these two processes and recent evidence links increased oxidative stress in COPD patients to mitochondrial damage. We therefore postulate that mitochondrial damage in COPD patients leads to increased oxidative stress and chronic inflammation, thereby increasing the risk of carcinogenesis. The functional state of the mitochondrion is dependent on the balance between its biogenesis and degradation (mitophagy). Dysfunctional mitochondria are a source of oxidative stress and inflammasome activation. In COPD, there is impaired translocation of the ubiquitin-related degradation molecule Parkin following activation of the Pink1 mitophagy pathway, resulting in excessive dysfunctional mitochondria. We hypothesise that deranged pathways in mitochondrial biogenesis and mitophagy in COPD can account for the increased risk in carcinogenesis. To test this hypothesis, animal models exposed to cigarette smoke and developing emphysema and lung cancer should be developed. In the future, the use of mitochondria-based antioxidants should be studied as an adjunct with the aim of reducing the risk of COPD-associated cancer.
The effects of exposure to biosolids containing transformation products of these ENMs at low concentrations remain largely unexplored. We examined the responses of Medicago truncatula and its symbiotic rhizobia Sinorhizobium meliloti exposed to soil amended with biosolids from WWTP containing low added concentrations of ENMs (ENM Low), bulk/dissolved metals (bulk/dissolved Low), or no metal additions (control). We targeted adding approximately 5 mg/kg of Ag and 50 mg/kg of Zn, and Ti. Measured endpoints included M. truncatula growth, nodulation, changes in the expression of stress response genes, uptake of metals (Ag, Zn and Ti) into shoots, and quantification of S. meliloti populations and soil microbial communities. After 30 days exposure, no effects on root or shoot biomass were observed in ENM Low and bulk/dissolved Low treatments, whereas both treatments had a larger average number of nodules (5.7 and 5.57, respectively) compared to controls (0.33). There were no significant differences in either total accumulated metal or metal concentrations in shoots among the treatments. Expression of five stress-related genes (metal tolerance protein (MTP), metal transporter (MTR), peroxidase (PEROX), NADPH oxidase (NADPH) and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate oxidase-like protein (ACC_Oxidase)) was significantly down-regulated in both bulk/dissolved Low and ENM Low treatments. However, a change in soil microbial community composition and a significant increase in total microbial biomass were observed in ENM Low relative to control. The ENM Low treatment had increased abundance of Gram-negative and anaerobic bacteria and reduced abundance of eukaryotes compared to control. The study demonstrated that although there were some subtle shifts in microbial community composition, plant health was minimally impacted by ENMs within the time frame and at the low exposure concentrations used in this study.
The objective of this study was to evaluate various extracts of leaves of Cleome gynandra L for its memory enhancing ability. The exteroceptive behavioral models such as elevated plus maze, Morris water maze, Radial arm maze, Y maze and Open field test were used to evaluate the learning and memory, whereas scopolamine is the natural ageing inducing amnesia served as interoceptive models. Parameters like Escape Latency Time (ELT), Time Spent in Target Quadrant (TSTQ), Transfer latency (TL), Peripheral movements and Rearings alternation to estimate the short-term memory and determination of brain Acetyl cholinesterase and β-Amyloid protein levels. The activity was compared with standard drug Piracetam. Single dose of (200mg/kg/oral) various extracts were orally administered for eighteen successive days in separate groups of animals and the doses were selected according to the animal weight. The activity was compared with standard drug Piracetam. Among different extracts, ethanolic extract has significantly improved the learning and memory in mice. Furthermore, the single doseof ethanolic extract was significantly reversed the amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.4mg/kg I.P). The presence of steroids, Flavonoides and potent antioxidant property of ethanolic extract of leaf of Cleome gynandra L. may be contributing favorably to memory enhancement effect. Since scopolamine induced amnesia was reversed by Cleome gynandra L., it is possible that the beneficial effect on learning and memory was due to facilitation of cholinergic transmission and inhibition of β-Amyloid levels in mouse brain.
Rising atmospheric CO2 causes ocean acidification that represents one of the major ecological threats for marine biota. We tested the hypothesis that long-term exposure to increased CO2 level and acidification in a natural CO2 vent system alters carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) metabolism in Posidonia oceanica L. (Delile), affecting its resilience, or capability to restore the physiological homeostasis, and the nutritional quality of organic matter available for grazers. Seawater acidification decreased the C to N ratio in P. oceanica tissues and increased grazing rate, shoot density, leaf proteins and asparagine accumulation in rhizomes, while the maximum photochemical efficiency of photosystem II was unaffected. The 13C-dilution in both structural and non-structural C metabolites in the acidified site indicated quali-quantitative changes of C source and/or increased isotopic fractionation during C uptake and carboxylation associated with the higher CO2 level. The decreased C:N ratio in the acidified site suggests an increased N availability, leading to a greater storage of 15N–enriched compounds in rhizomes. The amount of the more dynamic C storage form, sucrose, decreased in rhizomes of the acidified site in response to the enhanced energy demand due to higher shoot recruitment and N compound synthesis, without affecting starch reserves. The ability to modulate the balance between stable and dynamic C reserves could represent a key ecophysiological mechanism for P. oceanica resilience under environmental perturbation. Finally, alteration in C and N dynamics promoted a positive contribution of this seagrass to the local food web.
Caenorhabditis elegans is an important in vivo assay system for toxicological studies. Herein, we investigated the role of oxidative stress and the underlying molecular mechanism for induced adverse effects of simulated microgravity. In nematodes, simulated microgravity treatment induced a significant induction of oxidative stress. Genes (mev-1, gas-1, and isp-1) encoding a molecular machinery for the control of oxidative stress were found to be dysregulated in simulated microgravity treated nematodes. Meanwhile, genes (sod-2, sod-3, sod-4, sod-5, aak-2, skn-1, and gst-4) encoding certain antioxidant defense systems were increased in simulated microgravity treated nematodes. Mutation of mev-1, gas-1, sod-2, sod-3, aak-2, skn-1, or gst-4 enhanced susceptibility to oxidative stress induced by simulated microgravity, whereas mutation of isp-1 induced a resistance to oxidative stress induced by simulated microgravity. Mutation of sod-2, sod-3, or aak-2 further suppressed the recovery effect of simulated microgravity toxicity in nematodes after simulated microgravity treatment for 1 h. Moreover, administration of ascorbate could inhibit the adverse effects including the induction of oxidative stress in simulated microgravity treated nematodes. Mutation of any of the genes encoding metallothioneins or the genes of hsp-16.1, hsp-16.2 and hsp-16.48 encoding heat-shock proteins did not affect the induction of oxidative stress in simulated microgravity treated nematodes. Our results provide a molecular basis for the induction of oxidative stress in simulated microgravity treated organisms.
Herbal medicines are commonly measured to be fewer toxic and also free from side effects, than synthetic ones. Therefore, the present study is an effort to study antihyperglycemic property of ethanolic remove of Sesbania grandifloria counter to streptozotocin encouraged diabetes. The outcome of ethanolic remove of Sesbania grandifloria on blood glucose and liver glycogen remained studied in the diabetic rats. The study also measured for the outcome of herbal extract for their outcome on SOD, catalase, GSH and LPO in the homogenates of the pancreas. The outcomes of the current study shows important antidiabetic and antioxidant possible for the selected plants alone and also in combination as a projecting reduction in blood glucose and liver glycogen remained experimental in the rats treated with the extracts of the particular plants. Likewise, the levels of the defensive antioxidant enzymes like SOD, catalase and GSH were improved along with fall in the LPO levels. The current study offers a systematic evidence for antidiabetic and antioxidant potential of Sesbania grandifloria.
This study was carried out to determination of in vitro binding capacity of wheat bran, rice bran, and perlite for Mn, Zn, Cu, and Fe. For this reason, wheat bran and rice bran were chemically analysed for moisture, protein, ash, ether extract, total carbohydrate, neutral detergent fibre, acid detergent fibre, acid detergent lignin, crude fibre, cellulose, hemicelluloses, phytic acid, Non-Fiber Carbohydrate, total dietary fibre, soluble dietary fibre, insoluble dietary fibre, DF + lignin, and endogenous minerals. Mineral binding capacity of wheat bran, rice bran, and perlite for Mn, Zn, Fe, and Cu under sequential simulated physiological conditions of the stomach, small intestine, and colon was investigated and compared. Rice bran showed the highest mineral-binding capacity in small intestine for Mn, Zn, and Cu. Among the minerals, Mn exhibited the lowest percentage of binding under the simulated physiological conditions of the small intestine and the highest percentage of removing occurred in the stomach for all of the treatments. Cereal bran’s had an affinity for Cu > Zn > Fe > Mn. The amounts of minerals bound varied among samples. Rice bran showed the highest and perlite had lowest mineral-binding capacity in small intestine for Mn, Zn, and Cu.
Tribochemical reactions cause the Cobalt-Chromium-Molybdenum (CoCrMo) hip implant to release wear debris that interacts with decomposed proteins to form a tribolayer. We conducted an electrochemical investigation in order to understand the role of molybdenum in the stability of the tribolayer under mechanical wear and electrochemical corrosion. Tribolayers made of a bovine calf serum (BCS) and bovine calf serum with sodium molybdates (BCS-Mo) were electrochemically deposited on high carbon CoCrMo discs and subjected to corrosion and tribocorrosion experiments under potentiodynamic conditions in a hip-simulator. Potentiodynamic-polarization curve, Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) tests and surface characterization techniques were carried out. The results indicate an increased resistance to corrosion under mechanical wear by BCS-Mo coated surface which is more distinct when Mo is added into the electrolyte. In addition, biocompatibility evaluation using MG63 osteosarcoma cells on BCS and BCS-Mo coated samples did not show any statistically significant difference in cell growth compared to uncoated CoCrMo discs. These findings suggest a pre-formed electrochemical tribolayer with sodium molybdates may be a promising pre-implantation treatment of THRs to extend the longevity of implants in vivo.
In the present review we provide currently available evidence for the use of macrolides in the treatment of diffuse interstitial lung diseases (ILDs). Up to now, research on macrolides has mainly focused on three areas. First, macrolides have shown some promising results in cellular models and case reports as antifibrotic agents, by promoting autophagy and clearance of intracellular protein aggregates and acting as regulators of surfactant homeostasis. Secondly, macrolides have an immunomodulatory effect, which has been applied in some organising pneumonia cases. In particular, macrolides have been tested in association with systemic corticosteroids as steroid-sparing agents and alone as either first-line agents in mild cases or second-line agents where steroids were poorly tolerated or had failed. Thirdly, a recent area of research concerns the possible role of macrolides as modulators of lung microbiota and the host-microbiota interaction. This function has been particularly studied in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis patients, in whom changes in microbiota have been proved to be associated with disease progression. However, the lack of high-quality studies makes the application of macrolide therapy in ILDs a field in which research should be conducted on a large scale.
Phytochemicals are natural, non nutritive chemicals rich in pharmacological activities. They show a very potent antioxidant activity and this activity is closely linked to various beneficial actions, including anti-aging, prevention of cancer, cardiovascular disease, etc. Medicinal plants play a vital role in drug discovery that can be used to cure various ailments in humans. A safe new phytochemical compound as drugs is one of the major searches worldwide. Rosmarinic acid, a polyphenolic compound is generally available in the wide species of the Boraginaceae and Lamiaceae family (Nepetoideae subfamily). The phytochemical has two phenolic rings with ortho positioned hydroxyl groups. A carboxylic acid, carbonyl group and an unsaturated double bond is present between the two phenolic rings. The compound is thus an ester linked caffeic acid and 3, 4-dihydroxyphenyllactic acid. It has a broad range of biological activity that includes antiviral, antibacterial, antitumor, antihepatitis, anti-inflammation and inhibiting blood clots. Inflammation, a localized protective response elicited by injury or destructions of tissues, is mediated by various proinflammatory cytokines, is associated with every health condition. Inflammation is also important cause for many allergic diseases. Rosmarinic acid, being one of the promising active principles, can be developed for various pharmacological activities through clinical trials and applications further. This review aimed to describe the antiinflammatory properties of rosmarinic acid in various diseased conditions and to understand its basic mechanisms.
Cognitive impulsivity, a form of suboptimal cost-benefit decision making is an illustrious attribute of an array of neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's Disease (AD). In this study, delay discounting paradigm was used to assess the effect of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethanol (DOPET) on cognitive impulsivity - in an oA42i (oligomeric amyloid β1-42 plus ibotenic acid) induced AD mouse model - using a non-spatial T-maze task. The results depicted that oA42i administration elevated cognitive impulsivity, whereas DOPET treatment attenuated the impulsive behavior and matched the choice of the sham-operated controls. In addition, DOPET treatment has ameliorated the anxiety-like behavior in the oA42i-challenged mice. Probing the molecular signaling cascades underpinning these functional ramifications in the oA42i-challenged mice revealed: reduced cholinergic (α7 nAChR; alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor) function, dysregulated HPA-axis (manifested by amplified glucocorticoid receptor expression and plasma corticosterone levels), and also aberrations in the neuroepigenetic (microRNA-124, HDAC6 (histone deacetylase 6), and HSP90 (heat-shock protein 90) expressions) as well as nucleocytoplasmic (importin-α1 expression and nuclear ultra-architecture) continuum. Nonetheless, DOPET administration ameliorated these perturbations and the observations were in line with that of the sham-operated mice. Further validation of the results with organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSCs) confirmed the in vivo findings. We opine that HPA-axis attunement by DOPET might be orchestrated through α7 nAChR-mediated pathway. Based on these outcomes, we posit that 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethanol might be a potential multimodal agent for the management of cognitive impulsivity and neuromolecular quagmire in AD.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the fourth leading cause of death worldwide, with increasing prevalence, in particular in the elderly. COPD is characterised by abnormal tissue repair resulting in (small) airways disease and emphysema. There is accumulating evidence that ageing hallmarks are prominent features of COPD. These ageing hallmarks have been described in different subsets of COPD patients, in different lung compartments and also in a variety of cell types, and thus might contribute to different COPD phenotypes. A better understanding of the main differences and similarities between normal lung ageing and the pathology of COPD may improve our understanding of the mechanisms driving COPD pathology, in particular in those patients that develop the most severe form of COPD at a relatively young age, i.e. severe early-onset COPD patients. In this review, after introducing the main concepts of lung ageing and COPD pathology, we focus on the role of (abnormal) ageing in lung remodelling and repair in COPD. We discuss the current evidence for the involvement of ageing hallmarks in these pathological features of COPD. We also highlight potential novel treatment strategies and opportunities for future research based on our current knowledge of abnormal lung ageing in COPD.
Maternal exposure to particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter < 10 μm (PM10) during pregnancy results in adverse birth outcomes. Changes in placental DNA methylation might mediate those adverse effects. In this study, we examined the associations between prenatal PM10 exposure and DNA methylation of LINE1, HSD11B2 and NR3C1 in human placenta. One hundred and eighty-one mother newborn pairs (80 fetal growth restriction newborns, 101 normal newborns) participated in this study. The average PM10 exposure of each trimester and of the whole pregnancy was calculated using daily air pollution concentration data. Placental DNA methylation was measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction-pyrosequencing. Placental LINE-1 DNA methylation was reversely associated with first trimester PM10 exposure 1.78% (− β = 1.78, 95% CI: − 3.35, − 0.22%), while placental HSD11B2 DNA methylation was associated with both first and second trimester PM10 exposure, and relatively increased by 1.03% (95% CI: 0.07, 1.98%) and 2.33% (95% CI: 0.69, 3.76%) for each 10 μg/m3 increase in exposure to PM10. Those associations were much more evident in fetal growth restriction newborns than those in normal newborns. In summary, early pregnancy PM10 exposure was associated with placental DNA methylation of LINE1 and HSD11B2, suggesting that such methylation alterations might mediate PM-induced reproductive and developmental toxicity.
Reducing meat consumption by humans and shifting to more efficient plant and animal protein sources could potentially free up large areas of pasture and feedcrop agricultural land for restoration or conversion to low-input high-diversity (LIHD) grasslands. LIHD grasslands improve biodiversity, carbon sequestration, erosion control, water storage, while also providing opportunities to produce biofuels. We examined the potential of converting pastures globally, and animal feedstock agricultural lands in the USA and Brazil, to LIHD biomass sources and the capacity of these systems to meet national energy demands via (1) cellulosic ethanol and (2) integrated gasification and combined cycle technology with Fischer-Tropsch hydrocarbon synthesis (IGCC-FT) processing. Our analyses, which we argue are conservative, indicate that large amounts of energy, far in excess of many country's current demands, can potentially be produced from IGCC-FT processing of grassland biomass grown on converted pastures, especially in tropical developing countries. Over 40 countries could meet ≥ 100% of their domestic demands for electricity, gasoline, and diesel. If energy products were shared between countries, the 95 countries with positive energy production yields could meet 46%, 28%, and 39% of their combined electricity, gasoline, and diesel demands, respectively. While it is clearly unrealistic to propose a 100% conversion of pasture lands to biofuel production, these analyses highlight the potential gains in ecosystem services and energy production that could theoretically be achieved on already-managed lands.
Dairy farms have been widely acknowledged as a source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The need for a more environmentally friendly milk production system will likely be important going forward. Whereas methane (CH4) enteric emissions can only be reduced to a limited extent, CH4 manure emissions can be reduced by implementing mitigation strategies, such as the use of an anaerobic digestion (AD). Furthermore, implementing a photovoltaic (PV) electricity generation system could mitigate the fossil fuels used to cover the electrical needs of farms. In the present study to detect the main environmental hotspots of milk production, a Life Cycle Assessment was adopted to build the Life Cycle Inventory according to ISO 14040 and 14044 in a conventional dairy farm (1368 animals) provided by AD and PV systems. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change tiered approach was adopted to associate the level of emission with each item in the life cycle inventory. The functional unit refers to 1 kg of fat-and-protein-corrected-milk (FPCM). In addition to milk products, other important co-products need to be considered: meat and renewable energy production from AD and PV systems. A physical allocation was applied to attribute GHG emissions among milk and meat products. Renewable energy production from AD and PV systems was considered, discounting carbon credits due to lower CH4 manure emissions and to the minor exploitation of fossil energy. The CF of this farm scenario was 1.11 kg CO2eq/kg FPCM. The inclusion of AD allowed for the reduction of GHG emissions from milk production by 0.26 kg CO2eq/kg FPCM. The PV system contribution was negligible due to the small dimensions of the technology. The results obtained in this study confirm that integrating milk production with other co-products, originated from more efficient manure management, is a successful strategy to mitigate the environmental impact of dairy production.
Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancers among women worldwide. However, due to limited chemotherapeutic efficacy of current anticancer drugs, various natural products have been screened for novel alternative chemotherapeutic agents. Marine environment offers vast diversity of living organisms that provide compounds with impressive structural diversity and drug-like properties. Therefore, the main aim of this study was to determine the cytotoxic effects and mechanisms of cell death exerted by marine sponges on human breast cancer cell line, MCF-7. Four species, namely Aaptos sp., Stryphuous ponderosus, Theonella sp. and Xestospongia sp, were selected for this study. Methanol extracts from three species produced potent cytotoxicity effects with IC50 values at 72hr of less than 30μg/ml in the order of Aaptos sp. > S. ponderosus > Theonella sp. Due to the lack of studies on S. ponderosus, extract from this species was then used to determine its mechanisms of cell death. MCF-7 cell death exerted by the extract was found to be mediated by apoptosis based on the presence of DNA fragmentation in treated cells. Treatment of cells with the extract increased the levels of of caspase 3 suggesting that the protein was responsible in triggering the DNA fragmentation. In addition, the extract also induced the levels of caspases 8 and 9 and the levels of caspase 8 was higher than the latter suggesting that extrinsic was the major pathway that involved in inducing apoptosis. The apoptotic-induced cytototoxicity activity of the methanol extract of S. ponderosus may be due to the presence alkaloid and terpenoid compounds, and thus, may have the potential to be developed further as candidates for chemotherapeutic drugs for the treatment of breast cancer.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the UK Environmental Mutagen Society. Intratracheal instillation serves as a model for inhalation exposure. However, for this, materials are dispersed in appropriate media that may influence toxicity. We tested whether different intratracheal instillation dispersion media influence the pulmonary toxicity of different nanomaterials. Rodents were intratracheally instilled with 162 μg/mouse/1620 μg/rat carbon black (CB), 67 μg/mouse titanium dioxide nanoparticles (TiO2) or 54 μg/mouse carbon nanotubes (CNT). The dispersion media were as follows: water (CB, TiO2); 2% serum in water (CB, CNT, TiO2); 0.05% serum albumin in water (CB, CNT, TiO2); 10% bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in 0.9% NaCl (CB), 10% bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid in water (CB) or 0.1% Tween-80 in water (CB). Inflammation was measured as pulmonary influx of neutrophils into bronchoalveolar fluid, and DNA damage as DNA strand breaks in BAL cells by comet assay. Inflammation was observed for all nanomaterials (except 38-nm TiO2) in all dispersion media. For CB, inflammation was dispersion medium dependent. Increased levels of DNA strand breaks for CB were observed only in water, 2% serum and 10% BAL fluid in 0.9% NaCl. No dispersion medium-dependent effects on genotoxicity were observed for TiO2, whereas CNT in 2% serum induced higher DNA strand break levels than in 0.05% serum albumin. In conclusion, the dispersion medium was a determinant of CB-induced inflammation and genotoxicity. Water seemed to be the best dispersion medium to mimic CB inhalation, exhibiting DNA strand breaks with only limited inflammation. The influence of dispersion media on nanomaterial toxicity should be considered in the planning of intratracheal investigations.
Dissolved organic matter (DOM) can affect the performance of water treatment processes and produce undesirable disinfection by-products during disinfection. Several studies have been undertaken on the structural characterization of DOM, but its fate during drinking water treatment processes is still not fully understood. In this work, the nontargeted screening method of comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography-quadrupole mass spectrometry (GC × GC-qMS) was used to reveal the detailed changes of different chemical classes of compounds in DOM during conventional and advanced drinking water treatment processes at three drinking water treatment plants in China. The results showed that when the dissolved organic carbon removal was low, shifts in the DOM composition could not be detected with the specific ultraviolet absorbance at 254 nm, but the changes were clear in the three-dimensional fluorescence excitation-emission matrix or GC × GC-qMS analyses. Coagulation-sedimentation processes selectively removed 37–59% of the nitrogenous compounds, alcohols and aromatic hydrocarbons but increased the concentrations of halogen-containing compounds by 17–26% because of the contact time with chlorine in this step. Filtration was less efficient at removing DOM but preferentially removed 21–60% of the acids. However, other organic matter would be released from the filter (e.g., nitrogenous compounds, acids, and aromatic hydrocarbons). Biological activated carbon (BAC) treatment removed most of the compounds produced from ozonation, particularly ketones, alcohols, halogen-containing compounds and acids. However, it should be noted that certain highly polar or high molecular weight compounds not identified in this study might be released from the BAC bed. After the whole treatment processes, the concentrations of nitrogenous compounds, alcohols, alkenes, aromatic hydrocarbons and ketones were decreased more by the advanced treatment processes than by the conventional treatment processes. Alcohol and ketone removals were probably related to the reduction in protein-like materials. Alkane removal was probably related to the reduction in fulvic acid-like and humic acid-like materials.
An enzyme specimen hepatopancreatine was used for the hydrolysis reaction (proteolysis). A kinetic model describing the mechanism of enzyme hydrolysis of fish proteins as a second-order reaction was developed. The proteolysis model was based on the existence of easily hydrolysed and hydrolysis-resistant protein fractions. Autolysis of the enzyme was also taken into consideration. In the context of the developed kinetic model, the second-order rate constants of the intermediate stages of proteolysis were calculated.
DNA methylation is an essential epigenetic modification involved in regulating gene expression and maintaining epigenetic information across generations. However, how these marks are recognized and interpreted to activate or repress imprinted genes is not fully understood. Preliminary evidence describes the transcriptional repressor TRIM28 as a key regulator of imprinted gene expression during and after early genome-wide reprogramming. Aberrant expression of imprinted genes maybe one possible cause of incomplete epigenetic reprogramming and low efficiency in somatic cell nuclear transfer. Here, we perform a series of experiments to determine whether knockdown of Trim28 alters imprinted gene expression and DMR methylation in sheep embryonic fibroblast (SEF) cells. siRNA-mediated Trim28 silencing in SEF cells resulted in significantly decreased expression of Gtl2 to 30% and increased expression of Dlk1 (~ 1.7-fold). Moreover, knocking down Trim28 induced DNA methylation at the IG-DMR and the Gtl2 promoter was disrupted. Here, we uncover an important role for Trim28 in the maintenance of DNA methylation at IG-DMR during replication-dependent dilution of methylated cytosine during cellular proliferation. Unlike Dlk1-Gtl2 however, knocking down Trim28 does not affect DMR methylation in the Igf2-H19 gene cluster, yet results in increased expression of Igf2 and H19. Interestingly, Peg3 expression decreased by 60% in Trim28 knockdown cells. PEG3 as a transcriptional repressor to the H19-ICR that interacts with the co-repressor protein TRIM28 through KRAB-A. Trim28 therefore appears to control the Igf2-H19 imprinted cluster indirectly via PEG3, which is distinct from its classical role in preserving DNA methylation during DNA replication. Our results therefore indicate that Trim28 regulates imprinted gene expression through at least two distinct mechanisms during cells proliferation.
The goal of this examination is to explore the 3D structure of M1 Protein of influenza virus to check the best medication by focusing on protein. Structure of Protein was downloaded from Protein Databank. Water molecules were attached to that protein structure, were removed by using Discovery studio 4.1 and by using Autodock software. Autodock was used to perform assessment of structure. Ligand Rimantadine was drawn from PubChem Database and made more ligands by modification in Rimantadine by using Discovery studio 4.1 and PDBQT files of ligands made by using Autodock software. Protein was docked with rimantadine and four modified rimantadine ligands. From the Molecular Docking showed that the modified rimantadine drugs had greater binding energy than the rimantadine drug that’s why modified rimantadine was considered as the more effective against influenza virus. Autodock and Autodock vina softwares were used to perform molecular docking.
In this study, we focused on the biological functions and regulation mechanisms of SRWD1 in rice. The results showed that SRWD1 expression was repressed by GA and induced by abscisic acid (ABA). Two WRKY-family transcription factors, OsWRKY45 and OsWRKY72, were found to regulate SRWD1 expression by directly binding to the W-box region in its promoter. Transient co-expression and yeast two-hybrid analyses showed that a DELLA protein strengthened the activation of OsWRKY45 and partly relieved the suppression of OsWRKY72 by binding to them. Interestingly, both SRWD1-overexpressing transgenic plants and SRWD1-knockout mutants showed dwarf phenotypes and resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
N-terminal-TM-C2 domain proteins (NTMC2), which share domain architecture and sequence similarity to synaptotagmins (Syts) in mammals and FAM62 (extended Syts) in metazoans, form a small gene family in plants. Previous studies showed that the Arabidopsis thaliana NTMC2 type 1.1 protein (NTMC2T1.1, named AtSyt1) possesses calcium- and membrane-binding activities that allow it to function in a plasma membrane repair pathway induced by stress. However, we lack understanding of the diverse biological roles of plant NTMC2 family genes. In this study, a total of 13 OsNTMC2 genes was identified through a comprehensive bioinformatics analysis of the rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome and classified into six OsNTMC2 groups (OsNTMC2T1 to OsNTMC2T6) based on phylogeny and motif constitution. OsNTMC2T1 to OsNTMC2T3 have two calcium-binding domains (C2A and C2B), but OsNTMC2T4 to OsNTMC2T6 have single C2 domain. The expression profiles of OsNTMC2 genes were analysed at different stages of vegetative and reproductive development. This analysis revealed that at least one OsNTMC2 gene was abundantly expressed at each stage of development. These results should facilitate research on this gene family and provide new insights elucidating their functions in higher plants.
In order to establish a rapid and nondestructive method for the detection of protein in walnut kernel, a prediction model for walnut protein content was established based on near infrared spectroscopy. Near infrared band selection method was also studied for optimizing protein content predicting model. Firstly, near infrared spectroscopy information of three different sized walnut samples in the full range of 1 040~2 560 nm was collected, and the pretreatment was completed by multiple scattering correction and standard normal method. Then the spectral characteristic bands were selected by interval partial least square algorithm, and the partial least squares prediction models were established at full bands ranging from 1 040 nm to 2 560 nm and selected feature bands, respectively. The spectral analysis results showed that the walnut size has no significant effect on the walnut protein content prediction using near infrared spectrum method. The root mean square error and the correlation coefficients of the optimized model were 0.021 and 0.913 in the whole walnut sample validation set, which indicated that the application of interval partial least algorithm could optimize the model quality and reduce the complexity.
Fish bone meal from fish processing industry has been suggested to be a better candidate for fish meal replacement compared to alternative plant proteins in aquafeed. Nutritional composition analysis of bones from fish processing industry in Terengganu, Malaysia, showed that the fish bone meal contains high level of protein and lipid. The fish bone meal was then used in fish meal replacement study for Asian catfish, Pangasianodon hypophthalmus. Four diets were formulated to be iso-nitrogenous (35% crude protein) with 0%, 25%, 50% and 75% of the protein comes from laboratory prepared fish bone meal. The experimental diets were fed to juvenile P. hypophthalmus for 60 days. Detrimental effects were not apparent in survival of juvenile P. hypophthalmus. Weight gain and specific growth rate of the fish were not significantly (P>0.05) affected by the dietary treatments, however, increases in weight gain was demonstrated when dietary fish bone meal were up to 50% inclusion level. Whole body and muscle protein were significantly (P<0.05) higher in 25% and 50% fish bone meal based diets compared to the 75% fish bone meal based diet. Somatic parameters and blood parameters of the fish remain parallel over all dietary treatments. The results indicated that juvenile P. hypophthalmus could well utilize fish bone meal as protein source in their diets, subsequently reducing cost while optimizing their culture productivity. Based on the present experimental condition, it is concluded that at least half of the dietary fish meal could be replaced with fish bone meal in P. hypophthalmus.
Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) plays an important role in metabolic diseases. Glucose regulated protein 78 (GRP78) is a molecular chaperone in the ER where it is a marker for ERS activation. This study investigates the role of GRP78 in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in rats. Our rat model of NASH was induced by both a high sucrose and a high fat diet. The expression levels of LPS, ALT, FFA, and TG in the serum and FFA, TG, MDA, and TNFα in the liver were assessed. H&E, TUNEL and IHC staining were performed to examine histological changes, apoptosis and macrophage infiltration in the NASH liver tissue, respectively. The expression level of GRP78 in the liver was evaluated by Western blot and RT-PCR. The plasma levels of LPS, ALT, FFA, and TG in and the contents of FFA, TG, TNFα and MDA in the liver were gradually increased. Macrophage infiltration and hepatocytic apoptosis was significantly increased in the livers of the rats from the NASH group compared to the control group. The protein and mRNA levels of GRP78 in the liver of rats from the NASH group were also upregulated. In addition, GRP78 expression levels were positively correlated with the levels of ALT, TNFα CD68 and hepatocytic apoptosis. Thus, our results suggest that GRP78 may be an important player in the pathogenesis of NASH.
Whey cheese could be utilized become product such as fermented drink which is added by mango kweni juice to improve their acceptance. The aim of this research was to characterized physicochemical, sensory, and microbiology of fermented drink based on whey cheese with addition different concentration mango kweni juice of (0%, 5%, 10%, and 15%) by Lactobacillus casei. Color scale, viscosity, pH, total soluble solid, total free acid, fat, protein, total L. casei and sensory evaluation from panelist were examined after 24 hour of fermentation. Result showed that addition mango juice significantly affects the color scale, viscosity, pH, protein and number of L. casei of the product. The color of the product becomes more dark, red, and yellow. The product becomes more viscous. pH of the product become more acid and reduces protein content. Respectively total number of L. casei of the product increased 1 log. But addition of mango juice significantly did not affect sensory acceptance, total soluble solid, total free acid, and fat of the product. Sensory acceptance of the product range in dislike slightly and slightly like score that means formulation of the product need to be improved again.
We have found four H-bond groups: one conventional CO··HN bond group and three nonconventional CO··HC, π··HC involving aromatic rings and HN··HCaliphatic groups. The calculated electron density at the determined H-bond critical points suggests the follow protein pocket binding trend: P1 (2,311) >> P9 (1.109) > P4 (0.950) > P6 (0.553) > P7 (0.213) which agrees and reveal the nature of experimental findings, showing that P1 produces by a long way the strongest binding of the HLA-DR1 human protein molecule with the peptide backbone as consequence of the vast number of H-bonds in the P1 area and at the same time the largest specific binding of the peptide Tyr308 residue with aromatic residues located at the binding groove floor. The present results suggest the topological analysis of the electronic density as a valuable tool that allows a non-arbitrary partition of the pockets binding energy via the calculated electron density at the determined critical points.
Laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR) is a common defect among laryngological and phoniatric patients. Although LPR is categorized as a superficial gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), differential diagnosis should treat these two diseases separately. LPR symptoms can be assessed in the interview using as a tool the reflux symptom index (RSI). In addition, changes in the larynx that occur during LPR might be seen during laryngoscopy and classified according to the reflux finding score (RFS). One of the main mucosal irritants in LPR is pepsin which digests proteins and impairs the functions of the upper respiratory tract cells by affecting carbonate anhydrase (CAIII) and the Sep 70 protein. Pepsin initiates inflammatory changes within the larynx, nasopharynx and nasal cavity. The use of pepsin detection in upper and lower throat secretions is a new direction in LPR diagnostics.
Human factor VIIa (hFVIIa) is the initial enzyme which activates the exogenous coagulation pathway, and has been widely used for therapy of hemorrhage in patients with hemophilia and traumatic hemorrhage in patients without hemophilia, showing satisfactory hemostatic effect. However, it has some problems like other protein drugs, such as short circulating half-life, easiness to be hydrolyzed by enzymes and so on, which limit it's clinical applications greatly. And long-acting protein drugs can prolong residence time in vivo, increase medication compliance of patients, reduce drug-related health care costs, so development of long-acting hFVIIa has become a research hot spot. This article reviews the domestic and foreign research progress in long-acting hFVIIa.
It is well known that major part of a eukaryotic genome is wrapped around histone proteins forming nucleosomes. It was also demonstrated that the DNA sequence itself is playing an important role in the nucleosome positioning process. In this work, a cluster analysis of 67 517 nucleosome binding sites from the S. Cerevisiae genome was carried out. The classification method is based on the self-adjusting dinucleotides position weight matrix. As a result, 135 significant clusters were discovered that contain 43225 sequences (which constitutes 64% of the initial set). The meaning of the found classes is discussed, as well as the possibility of the further usage.
Purpose: Daily modulation of gene expression is critical for the circadian rhythms of many organisms. One of the modulating mechanisms is based on nocturnin, a deadenylase that degrades mRNA in a circadian fashion. The nocturnin genes are expressed broadly, but their tissue expression patterns differ between mice and the frog Xenopus laevis; this difference suggests that the extent of the regulation of nocturin gene expression varies among species. In this study, we set out to characterize the expression patterns of two zebrafish nocturnin genes; in addition, we asked whether a frog nocturnin promoter has transcriptional activity in zebrafish. Methods: We used RT-PCR, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT)-PCR), and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) analysis to determine whether the nocturnin-a and nocturnin-b genes are expressed in the eye, in situ hybridization to determine the cellular expression pattern of the nocturnin-b gene in the retina, and confocal microscopy to determine the protein expression pattern of the transgenic reporter green fluorescent protein (GFdriven by the frog nocturnin promoter. Results: We found that the amino acid sequences of zebrafish noct reverse transcription (urnin-a and nocturnin-b are highly similar to those of frog, mouse, and human nocturnin homologs. Only nocturnin-b is expressed in the eye. Within the retina, nocturnin-b mRNA was expressed at higher levels in the retinal photoreceptors layer than in other cellular layers. This expression pattern echoes the restricted photoreceptor expression of nocturnin in the frog. We also found that the frog nocturnin promoter can be specifically activated in zebrafish rod photoreceptors. Conclusions: The high level of similarities in amino acid sequences of human, mouse, frog, and zebrafish nocturnin homologs suggest these proteins maintain a conserved deadenylation function that is important for regulating retinal circadian rhythmicity. The rod-specific transcriptional activity of the frog nocturnin promoter makes it a useful tool to drive moderate and rod-specific transgenic expression in zebrafish. The results of this study lay the groundwork to study nocturnin-based circadian biology of the zebrafish retina.
MicroRNAs are emerging as critical regulators in various fundamental biological processes, including tumor progression. MicroRNA-219-5p (miR-219-5p) has been suggested as a novel tumor suppressing miRNA for many types of human cancers. However, the expression and functional significance of miR-219-5p in epithelial ovarian cancer remain poorly understood. In this study, we sought to explore the potential functions of miR-219-5p in epithelial ovarian cancer. Herein, we found that miR-219-5p levels were significantly decreased in epithelial ovarian cancer tissues and cell lines. Further experiments showed that overexpression of miR-219-5p inhibited epithelial ovarian cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, and suppressed the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. By contrast, suppression of miR-219-5p exhibited the opposite effects. Twist was identified as a downstream target of miR-219-5p, and its expression was directly regulated by miR-219-5p. Restoration of Twist expression in miR-219-5p-overexpresing cells significantly reversed the antitumor effects of miR-219-5p. Taken together, our results revealed a tumor suppressive role for miR-219-5p in epithelial ovarian cancer that includes suppression of cell proliferation, migration, and invasion through downregulation of the Twist/Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Our study suggests that miR-219-5p may have potential applications in the diagnosis and treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer.
Objective: To develop and validate a method for determination of free polysaccharide in serotype 6B pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate with TT as carrier protein (PS6B-TT). Methods: NaDC/HCl method was adopted. 1% NaDC was mixed with different concentrations of TT, supernatants were collected by centrifugation, and protein content was determined by Lowrry assay to determine the concentration range of carrier protein precipitated with NaDC. The mixtures of free polysaccharide and TT were diluted with different ionic strengths of sodium chloride solution, and the supernatants were collected and tested for polysaccharide content by anthrone-sulfuric acid method to determine the condition for separation of free polysaccharide. The serotype 6B standard for determination of polysaccharide content was precipitated with NaDC/HCl and the standard curve was compared with the normal standard to evaluate the influence of presence of NaDC on determination result of polysaccharide content. The specificity, accuracy and precision were verified. Results: The carrier protein concentration for NaDC precipitation was controlled at less than 500 μg·mL-1. 0.3 mol·L-1 sodium chloride served as the diluent for determination of free polysaccharide in serotype 6B pneumococcal conjugate. NaDC/HCl method showed little effect on determination of polysaccharide content by anthrone-sulfuric acid method. After NaDC/HCl precipitation, the recovery rates of mixture of free polysaccharide and TT were 98.25% and 0, respectively. The recovery rates of free polysaccharide in spike test were between 90%~100%. The intro- and inter-assay CVs of three batches of determination results were less than 10%. Conclusion: The developed NaDC/HCl precipitation combined with anthrone-sulfuric acid method is effective for separation of 6B free polysaccharide from conjugate, accurate and stable for determination of free polysaccharide content.
Mocaf flour, rice flour, and corn flour in different concentrations were used to produce dry noodles. The aims of this study were to investigate physicochemical properties of the flours and the quality characteristics of dry noodles made from these flours. Dry noodles were prepared by gelatinization of blending flours followed by feeding the dough to extruder and drying overnight in room temperature. Flours were analyzed for chemical and pasting properties and noodle samples were evaluated for chemical, cooking, and texture properties. The results showed there were significant differences in protein content and elongation between noodles made from blending mocaf and rice flour with that of blending mocaf, rice, and corn flour. The moisture, ash, and protein content of noodle samples ranged from 10.98 to 14.18%, 1.23 to 1.39%, and 4.09 to 5.58%, respectively. Values of noodle cooking quality were ranging from 12.0 - 13.8 minutes, 10.6 to 14.3%, and 204 to 248%, respectively for cooking time, cooking loss, and cooking weight. The elongation, hardness, and adhesiveness of noodles ranged from 276 to 374%, 3,523 to 10,478 gf, and -81.99 to -52.49 g.sec.
Apoptosis is orchestrated by a family of cysteine proteases known as the caspases, and caspase3 is the primary executioner caspase in the apoptosis. In the present study, the potential role of caspase3 was investigated under the exposure to high temperature and elevated ammonium in stony coral Pocillopora damicornis. The cDNA of a caspase3 (PdCaspase3) was identified to encode a polypeptide of 344 amino acids, and the encoded protein contained one CASc domain (Caspase, interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme homologues, from Val76 to Asn333). The recombinant protein of the mature PdCaspase3 was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3)-Transetta, and it displayed caspase3-like activity which catalyzed the reaction of DEVD-p-nitroanilide cleavage. The expression level of PdCaspase3 mRNA increased significantly at 24 h after acute heat stress and 12 h after acute ammonium stress, reached 2.28-fold (P < 0.05) and 1.76-fold (P < 0.05) of that in the blank group, respectively. The activation level of caspase3 began to increase at 12 h (1.41-fold, P < 0.05), and reached the peak at 24 h (1.54-fold, P < 0.05) after acute heat stress. Furthermore, the activation level of caspase3 increased significantly during 6–24 h, with the highest level at 24 h (1.44-fold, P < 0.05) after acute ammonium stress. These results collectively suggested that PdCaspase3, as a homologue of caspase3, was involved in the response to high temperature and elevated ammonium, which might further regulate the symbiosis between the host and zooxanthellae in the stony coral P. damicornis.
The endocannabinoid system, comprising the cannabinoid receptors type 1 (CB1) and type 2 (CB2), their endogenous ligands (endocannabinoids), and the proteins that regulate endocannabinoid biosynthesis and degradation, controls several physiological and pathological functions. Indeed, recent evidence indicates that endocannabinoids influence the intracellular events controlling the proliferation and apoptosis of numerous types of cancer cells, thereby leading to both in vitro and in vivo antitumour effects. Also, the endogenous ligand arachidonoyl ethanolamide (anandamide; AEA) inhibits the proliferation of human breast cancer cells by blocking the G0/G1-S-phase transition of the cell cycle through interference with cannabinoid CB1 receptor-coupled signal-transducing events. The present review shows that cannabinoids exert their anti-cancer effects in a number of ways and in a variety of tissues. Furthermore, the novel therapeutic application of cannabinoids in cancer disease, described here, strongly support the idea that cannabinoids may induce benefical effect in cancer treatment.
Osteoclast is a kind of unique cells which is responsible for bone matrix absorption. It was widely reported that microRNAs (miRNAs) could regulate several physiological processes, including osteoclastogenesis. In our study, microarray analysis showed that miR-30a was down-regulated during osteoclastogenesis after RANKL (receptor activator of nuclear factor κB ligand) stimulation. Osteoclasts and actin-ring formation as well as bone resorption were inhibited when miR-30a was overexpressed in osteoclast precursor cells. Meantime, when miR-30a was inhibited in osteoclast precursor cells, osteoclasts and actin-ring formation as well as bone resorption were promoted. Furthermore, we discovered that miR-30a overexpression inhibited the protein levels of DC-STAMP, c-Fos and NFATc1. However, when DC-STAMP was inhibited by using a DC-STAMP siRNA, we could not detect the inhibition effect of osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption induced by miR-30a. In conclusion, miR-30a attenuated osteoclastogenesis via suppression of DC-STAMP-c-Fos-NFATc1 signaling pathway. On these grounds, this study may reveal a new promising target for the treatment of osteoporosis and other osteopenic disorders.
For accurate normalization of gene expression in L. japonica using quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), reference genes with stable gene expression patterns are essential. However, no appropriate reference genes is L. japonica have been investigated to date. In the present study, 12 selected housekeeping genes from L. japonica were cloned. We evaluated the stability of these genes under various experimental treatments by RT-qPCR using four independent (geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper and Delta Ct) and one comparative (RefFinder) algorithm. We identified genes showing the most stable levels of expression: DIMT, 18S rRNA, and RPL13 during different stages; AK, RPL13, and TBP among sexes; EF1A, PPI, and RPL27 in different tissues, and EF1A, RPL13, and PPI in adults fed on different diets. Moreover, the expression profile of a target gene (odorant receptor 1, OR1) studied during the developmental stages confirms the reliability of the chosen selected reference genes. This study provides for the first time a comprehensive list of suitable reference genes for gene expression studies in L. japonica and will benefit subsequent genomics and functional genomics research on this natural enemy.
Results show that IBA could significantly enhance rooting and root characteristics of cuttings and were best with IBA at 1500 mg/L. In the rooting process, the formation of adventitious roots was related to the consumption and accumulation of nutrients (soluble sugars and proteins) and the changes in endogenous hormones in phloem, leaf tips and leaf bases. The rooting of cuttings had a positive correlation with the consumption of soluble sugars during the period of callus formation and with the accumulation of soluble sugars during adventitious root formation and growth. Rooting was positively related to the breakdown of soluble proteins in the phloem when the callus formed, and had a positive correlation with its accumulation during adventitious root formation and growth. Leaf tips and leaf bases showed a reverse trend in changes of soluble protein. However, together with the phloem, leaf tips and leaf bases regulated and controlled the formation and development of adventitious roots. The main activities of soluble proteins exist in the leaf tips as this was the main source of soluble proteins. The relation between rooting and IAA (indole-3-acetic acid) content in phloem was positive and thus a high concentration of IAA could benefit the induction and formation of adventitious roots. However, rooting was negatively related with ABA (abscisic acid) and GA (gibberellic acid) and a high concentration of both could inhibit the induction and formation of adventitious roots. Rooting had a positive correlation with phloem IAA/ABA ratios, and higher ratios could improve rooting. Low concentrations of ZR (zeatin riboside) triggered the induction of adventitious roots, while higher concentrations promoted root growth. Endogenous hormones in leaf tips and bases had an impact on rooting. The activities of endogenous hormones mainly existed in leaf tips because they play a major role in the production and consumption of IAA and its ABA content increased during rooting. The ZR in leaf tips influenced the rooting of cuttings, especially in the callus formation and rooting stage. Leaf tips were the main source of GA.
The contribution of risk alleles to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) may vary between populations. This study aimed to investigate the role of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in HHIP on COPD susceptibility in the Chinese Mongolian and Han populations from Inner Mongolia autonomous region. In this case-control study, five SNPs in HHIP gene were detected in 700 COPD patients (350 Chinese Han and 350 Chinese Mongolian) and 700 healthy controls (350 Chinese Han and 350 Chinese Mongolian). The genotype, the association with COPD, and the differences between Chinese Han and Mongolian populations were evaluated using the chi-squared (χ2) test, genetic models, and logistic analysis. The minor allele C in SNP rs10519717 was associated with COPD in Mongolian (Odds ration (OR) = 1.401, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.110–1.769, P = 0.044); however, not in the Han. The CC genotype in SNP rs10519717 was a risk factor for COPD in Mongolian (OR = 2.667, 95% CI: 1.479–4.809, P = 0.044); however, the TC genotype in Han played the same role (OR = 1.396, 95% CI: 1.018–1.915, P = 0.044). The GG genotype in SNP rs13147758 was protective in the Han (OR = 0.546, 95% CI: 0.332–0.897, P = 0.017). The homozygote of the minor alleles in SNPs rs12504628, rs1828591, and rs13118928 had a protective role in the both of COPD populations. For the minor allele distribution, the differences between the Han and Mongolian were presented only in the case group for rs12504628 (P = 0.003), rs13147758 (P = 0.002), rs1828591 (P = 0.001), and rs13118928 (P = 0.002); for the genotypes, differences was presented at the frequency of the minor allele homozygote in rs13147758 (P = 0.048), rs10519717 (P = 0.027), rs1828591 (P = 0.041), and rs13118928 (P = 0.044) in Mongolian. Our findings suggested that HHIP rs10519717 might be associated with susceptibility of Mongolian COPD. For the other SNPs, the differences between the two populations were represented by minor allele distribution and frequency of the minor allele homozygotes.
Hedyotis diffusa, a traditional Chinese herbal medicine, possesses anti-cancer, anti-oxidative, and anti-inflammatory effects. The aim of this study is to explore the anti-tumor potential of Hedyotis diffusa polysaccharides (HDP) in human larynx squamous carcinoma. High performance size-exclusion chromatography analysis indicated the homogeneous nature of HDP. Total carbohydrate content in HDP was 97.3%, without contamination of protein and nucleic acid. HDP suppressed the proliferation of Hep2 human larynx squamous carcinoma cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Cell cycle analysis revealed that exposure to HDP (400 μg/ml) caused a G0/G1 cell cycle arrest. Moreover, treatment with HDP for 24 h induced a significant apoptosis of Hep2 cells, which was accompanied by increased cleavage of caspase-3, caspase-8, and caspase-9 and reduced expression of Bcl-2 protein. Additionally, HDP inhibited cell migration and suppressed the expression of MMP-2 and μPA. In conclusion, HDP shows suppressive effects against the aggressive phenotypes of human larynx squamous carcinoma cells and may have therapeutic potential for this malignancy.
RBJ has been identified to be dysregulated in gastrointestinal cancer and promotes tumorigenesis and progression by mediating nuclear accumulation of active MEK1/2 and sustained activation of ERK1/2. Considering that nuclear accumulation and constitutive activation of MEK/ERK not only promotes tumor progression directly, but also induces chronic inflammation, we wonder whether and how RBJ impairs host immune-surveillance via chronic inflammation and consequently supports tumor progression. Here, we report that higher expression of RBJ in human breast cancer tissue has been significantly correlated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer patients. The forced expression of RBJ promotes tumor growth and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, more accumulation of immune suppressive cells but less antitumor immune cell subpopulations were found in spleen and tumor tissue derived from RBJ forceexpressed tumor-bearing mice. Furthermore, forced RBJ expression significantly promotes tumor cell production of pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6 by constitutive activating MEK/ERK signaling pathway. Accordingly, RBJ knockdown significantly decreases tumor growth and metastasis in vitro and in vivo, with markedly reduced production of IL-6. Administration of anti-IL-6 neutralizing antibody could reduce MDSCs accumulation in tumor tissue in vivo. Therefore, our results demonstrate that RBJ-mediated nuclear constitutive activation of ERK1/2 leads to persistent production of IL-6 and increase of MDSCs recruitment, contributing to promotion of tumor growth and metastasis. These results suggest that RBJ contributes to tumor immune escape, maybe serving a potential target for design of antitumor drug.
Hepatitis C virus subtype 3a (HCV-3a) is a highly prevalent type in Pakistan. Although, the response rate of this type is higher to Interferon (IFN) therapy than other types, yet a significant percentage of HCV-3a patients fail to respond to IFN therapy. The variation in the genetic makeup of HCV is regarded as one of the important factors that influenced the response rate of HCV to IFN therapy. This study was conducted to determine the genetic variation in HCV-3a and its association with IFN therapy response. One hundred and fifty samples of HCV-3a patients were collected at the Pathology Department of Shalamar Hospital, Lahore. Out of those, 50 were initial samples of responders (IR) taken at the start of the therapy and 100 of non responders including 50 initial (INR) and 50 last samples (LNR). To determine the association of amino acid sequence variation in E2 protein of HCV-3a with therapy outcome, two regions E2506-564 and E2622-714 from the E2 protein were amplified and sequenced. In the first region (E2506-564) a hyper-variable sequence of 33 amino acids (E2522-554) was found where the mutation rate was lower in IR than INR and LNR. In contrast, in the PePHD domain (E2665-676) of the second selected region (E2622-714) mutation in IR isolates was observed higher than INR and LNR. In conclusion, the treatment response was associated with amino acid (aa) sequence variation in the both selected regions of E2 protein of HCV-3a (E2506-564 and E2622-714).
This study aims to find growth rate and protein content of humpback grouper, Cromileptes altivelis, through the utilization of hardmilk wood plant, Alstonia acuminata, and other local materials as artificial feed composition. This experiment used 12-13 cm long-humpback grouper, C. altivelis. They were reared in the aquarium filled with 100 liters of seawater at a density of 6 individuals per aquarium. There were 4 experimental feed types with addition of different concentration of A. acuminata plant, 0.1% (A), 0.2% (B), 0.3% (C), 0.4% (D), and control treatment (without A. acuminate addition). Protein content of each treatment wa the same, 45%. The study applied a Complete Randomized Design with 3 replications. Results revealed that treatment B gave the highest mean growth rate with mean daily weight increment of 4 g and daily length increment of 0.011 cm, and mean absolute weight increment of 73 g and absolute length increment of 4.594 cm. As conclusion, feeding C. altivelis with addition of 0.2% A. acuminata can raise the growth rate with high survival rate.
Rationale: Metallothioneins (MTs) are a class of dynamic proteins that have been investigated extensively using mass spectrometric methods due to their amenability to ionization. Here we detect the formation of oxidative and non-oxidative MT dimers using high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS) which has previously been overlooked with lower-resolution techniques. Methods: Recombinant human MT1a and its isolated domain fragments were analyzed by high-resolution Thermo Q-Exactive and Bruker time-of-flight (TOF) mass spectrometers. Covalent Cys modification was performed using N-ethylmalemide to probe the effect of Cys oxidation on dimer formation. Results: Dimerization was detected in the analysis of select charge states of Zn7MT and apo-βMT. Specifically, high resolution (140 k) revealed the +6 dimer peaks overlapping with the +3 charge state, but not with the other charge states (+4, +5, +6). The proteins with covalently modified Cys did not show dimer formation in any of their charge states. Apo-α and apo-βαMT also did not form dimers under the conditions tested. Conclusions: Dimerization of MT was detected for zinc metalated and certain apo-MT forms with HRMS, which was not seen with lower-resolution techniques. These dimers appear overlapped only with certain charge states, confounding their analysis for structural characterization of MTs. The Zn-MT dimers appeared to be non-oxidative; however, the formation of dimers in the apo-protein is likely dependent on Cys oxidation.
BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are selective therapies for the patients with Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML). Imatinib and ponatinib have remarkable long-term efficacy on a major molecular response. Although TKI related induction of cytotoxicity and apoptosis have been clearly investigated in molecular levels, their comparative effect on autophagy and miRNome are largely unknown. This study aimed to investigate the involvement of alterations of miRNA expressions in CML progression, and how imatinib and ponatinib affect this process, by comparing CML, imatinib-resistant CML and leukemia stem cells (LSC). Cytotoxicity analysis was conducted by WST-1, apoptosis was evaluated by AnnexinV, autophagy was analyzed by Tb/GFP TR-FRET LC3B assay and changes in miRNomes were evaluated with microarray method. Ponatinib showed higher cytotoxicity and apoptosis at far fewer concentrations than imatinib. Both imatinib and ponatinib was able to trigger autophagy in imatinib-resistant K562ima3 cell line but not in LSC. We pointed that imatinib and ponatinib caused significant miRNA profile alterations, especially in the expressions of miR-214-pre, miR-218, miR-19a-5p, miR-19b-1-5p, miR-27b-pre, miR-23b-pre, miR-320e, miR-200a-pre, miR-508-3p, miR-33-pre and miR-766. This study is the first comparative miRNome analysis of CML, resistant CML and LSCs following the imatinib or ponatinib treatment and may guide to identify new markers for diagnosis, follow-up of the disease and to develop novel therapeutic strategies if supported by preclinical studies.
Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group Objectives: The hypothalamus lies adjacent to the third ventricle and is in close proximity with the median eminence (ME), a circumventricular organ with an incomplete blood–brain barrier (BBB) which controls direct entry of nutrients into the brain. The blood–CSF barrier of the hypothalamus shows dynamic changes upon neuroendocrine events and adjusts permeability with the tight junction (TJ) complex. It has been shown that chronic exposure to a high-fat diet (HFD) affects BBB permeability. HFD also induces leptin resistance and alters neuropeptide expression in the arcuate nucleus (Arc) of the hypothalamus starting early during overnutrition. We hypothesized altered integrity of the BBB to occur after exposing rats to a free-choice high-fat high-sugar (fcHFHS) diet for 1 week. Methods: We measured diffusion of Evans blue dye over the ME and assessed expression of the TJ proteins ZO-1, claudin-5, and occludin in the tanycytic wall of the third ventricle. Furthermore, we assessed protein expression of glucose transporter 1 (GLUT-1), which is highly expressed in the Arc-ME complex and facilitates glucose transport over the BBB. Results: fcHFHS-fed rats increased caloric intake compared to control, however, there was no effect of the fcHFHS diet on permeability of the BBB, nor changes in protein expression of tight TJ proteins or GLUT-1. Fasting acutely affects the BBB and we hypothesized that exposure to the fcHFHS diet affects the BBB differently compared to chow after fasting. We did not, however, find any differences in Evans blue diffusion nor protein expression between chow- and fcHFHS-fed rats when fasted overnight. Conclusions: We conclude that short-term consumption of a fcHFHS diet does not change permeability or diffusion in the hypothalamus barrier in ad libitum fed or fasted rats.
Objective: To observe the effect of resveratrol on autophagy in type 2 diabetes cardiomyopathy and its molecular mechanism. Methods: Eight week-old db/db mice and homology db/m mice with spontaneously type 2 diabetes mellitus were divided into normal group (db/m group), model group (db/db group) and resveratrol group (db/db+RSV) and fed for 12 weeks. RSV group were treated with resveratrol of 400 mg·kg-1·d-1. H9c2 cells were randomly divided into the following groups: control group (low glucose, LG, 5.5 mmol·L-1), high glucose group (40 mmol·L-1 glucose+200 μmol·L-1 palmitate), Resveratrol group (RSV, 100 μmol·L-1), Mito-Tempo group (2 μmol·L-1, an inhibitor of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species), 3-methyladenine (3-MA) group (100 μmol·L-1, an inhibitor of autophagy). Drugs were added directly into culture medium and treated for 48 h. H9c2 cells were treated with high glucose and palmitate to mimic type 2 diabetes with hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia. With treatment of SIRT1 gene interfered with siRNA, the ROS, autophagy and mitochondrial transmembrane potential were observed. The expressions of ATG7, Beclin1, P62, LC3, SOD and SIRT1 were detected by Western Blot. Results: In type 2 diabetic myocardium, the expression level of SIRT1 and the level of autophagy were decreased, ROS production was increased and mitochondrial transmembrane potential was decreased. The treatment of resveratrol increased the expression level of SIRT1 and the level of autophagy, and improved the mitochondrial function. Conclusion: Resveratrol can protect cardiocytes against oxidative stress by promoting autophagy through increasing the expression of SIRT1.
Alternative pre-mRNA splicing increases transcriptome plasticity by forming naturally-occurring alternative splicing variants (ASVs). Alterations of splicing processes, caused by DNA mutations, result in aberrant splicing and the formation of aberrant mRNA isoforms. Analyses of hereditary cancer predisposition genes reveal many DNA variants with unknown clinical significance (VUS) that potentially affect pre-mRNA splicing. Therefore, a comprehensive description of ASVs is an essential prerequisite for the interpretation of germline VUS in high-risk individuals. To identify ASVs in a gene of interest, we have proposed an approach based on multiplex PCR (mPCR) amplification of all theoretically possible exon-exon junctions and subsequent characterization of size-selected and pooled mPCR products by next-generation sequencing (NGS). The efficiency of this method is illustrated by a comprehensive analysis of BRCA1 ASVs in human leukocytes, normal mammary, and adipose tissues and stable cell lines. We revealed 94 BRCA1 ASVs, including 29 variants present in all tested samples. While differences in the qualitative expression of BRCA1 ASVs among the analyzed human tissues were minor, larger differences were detected between tissue and cell line samples. Compared with other ASV analysis methods, this approach represents a highly sensitive and rapid alternative for the identification of ASVs in any gene of interest.
Background As a specialized organ, the insect ovary performs valuable functions by ensuring fecundity and population survival. Oogenesis is the complex physiological process resulting in the production of mature eggs, which are involved in epigenetic programming, germ cell behavior, cell cycle regulation, etc. Identification of the genes involved in ovary development and oogenesis is critical to better understand the reproductive biology and screening for the potential molecular targets in Plutella xylostella, a worldwide destructive pest of economically major crops. Results Based on transcriptome sequencing, a total of 7.88 Gb clean nucleotides was obtained, with 19,934 genes and 1861 new transcripts being identified. Expression profiling indicated that 61.7% of the genes were expressed (FPKM ≥ 1) in the P. xylostella ovary. GO annotation showed that the pathways of multicellular organism reproduction and multicellular organism reproduction process, as well as gamete generation and chorion were significantly enriched. Processes that were most likely relevant to reproduction included the spliceosome, ubiquitin mediated proteolysis, endocytosis, PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, insulin signaling pathway, cAMP signaling pathway, and focal adhesion were identified in the top 20 ‘highly represented’ KEGG pathways. Functional genes involved in oogenesis were further analyzed and validated by qRT-PCR to show their potential predominant roles in P. xylostella reproduction. Conclusions Our newly developed P. xylostella ovary transcriptome provides an overview of the gene expression profiling in this specialized tissue and the functional gene network closely related to the ovary development and oogenesis. This is the first genome-wide transcriptome dataset of P. xylostella ovary that includes a subset of functionally activated genes. This global approach will be the basis for further studies on molecular mechanisms of P. xylostella reproduction aimed at screening potential molecular targets for integrated pest management.
The increase in the average lifespan and the consequent proportional growth of the elderly segment of society has furthered the interest in studying ageing processes. Ageing may be considered a multifactorial process derived from the interaction between genetic and environmental factors including lifestyle. There is ample evidence in many species that the maximum age attainable (maximum lifespan potential, MLSP) is genetically determined and several mitochondrial DNA polymorphisms are associated with longevity. Many studies have shown that most of the phenotypic characteristics observed in the aging process are the result of the occurrence, with age, of a low grade chronic pro-inflammatory status called "inflammaging", partially under genetic control. The term indicate that aging is accompanied by a low degree of chronic inflammatory, an up-regulation of inflammatory response and that inflammatory changes are common to many age-related diseases. Therefore, the theory of oxidation-inflammation was proposed as the main cause of aging. Accordingly, the chronic oxidative stress that appears with age affects all cells and especially those of the regulatory systems, such as the nervous, endocrine, and immune systems and the communication between them. This prevents an adequate homeostasis and, therefore, the preservation of health. It was also proposed that the immune system plays a key role in the aging process, specifically in the rate of aging, since there is a relationship between the redox state and functional capacity of immune cells and longevity of individuals. Moreover, the role of the immune system in senescence could be of universal application. A confirmation of the central role of the immune system in oxi-inflamm-aging is that the administration of adequate amounts of antioxidants in the diet improves immune function, decreases their oxidative stress, and consequently increases longevity. The present review was aimed to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying beneficial effects of mediterranean diet on neuroinflammation and related diseases.
This study evaluates promoter methylation of the programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) as a biomarker in a cohort of 383 colorectal cancer patients. PD-L1 methylation (mPD-L1) was inversely correlated with PD-L1 mRNA expression (p D 0.001) and was associated with significantly shorter overall survival (OS, p D 0.003) and recurrence-free survival (RFS, p < 0.001). In age-stratified multivariate Cox proportional hazards analyses including sex, tumor, nodal, distant metastasis categories, microsatellite instability (MSI)-status, and PD-L1 mRNA, mPD-L1 is classified as an independent prognostic factor (OS: p D 0.030; RFS: p < 0.001). Further studies are needed to evaluate PD-L1 methylation as a biomarker for response prediction of immunotherapies targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis.
Indonesia is a third largest country in the world for cocoa production. A cocoa pod could be utilized as alternative feeds due to their sufficient quantity and availability throughout the year. On the other hand, low nutritional quality such as highly fibrous materials and low protein content usually characterized in agricultural and plantation by-products as it appears on cocoa pod. Ammoniation treatment using urea improve the nutritional quality of feedstuff. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of ammoniation treatments on a cocoa pod on in vitro feed fermentation and gas production on ruminal fluid. KA treatment gave highest gas production than other treatment. Total gas production during 48 hours of the cocoa pod was significantly affected by treatments (P<0.05). Total volatile acid (VFA), acetate (C2), propionate (C3), butyrate (C4) total VFA and A/P ratio indicated no significant difference among treatments. KA and KD treatments have tendency effect on IVDMD than control (KS) treatment. In this study ammoniation treatment using 5% of urea had a positive and effect on the best degradability and ruminal fermentation of cocoa pod.
The platelet-derived growth factor/vascular endothelial growth factor (PDGF/VEGF, PVF) family of proteins have been implicated in a wide range of biological functions in vertebrates, including cell proliferation, cell differentiation, cell migration, neural development and especially angiogenesis/vasculogenesis. In this study, a PVF gene, belonging to the PDGF/VEGF family, was cloned and characterized from Pinctada fucata. It contained an ORF of 1110 bp encoding a putative protein of 369 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence presented the typical structural features of PDGF family members and the N-terminal signal peptide for secretion. Comparative phylogenetic analysis revealed that PfPVF shows relatively high identity with other invertebrate PVF homologues. Furthermore, gene expression analysis revealed that PfPVF is involved in not only the nucleus grafting operation and but also the response to immune stimulation. The study may help to increase understanding of the functions of molluscan PVF.
Hence, the drug resistant genes/proteins were explored as promising drug targets. Keeping this thing in mind, proteome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA01 was explored, which resulted in the identification of tripartite protein complexes (MexA, MexB, and OprM) as promising drug target for the screening of natural and synthetic inhibitors. The purpose of present investigation was to explore the drug resistance reversal potential mechanism of catharanthine isolated from the leaves of Catharanthus roseous. Hence, the test compound catharanthine was in silico screened using docking studies against the above receptors, which showed signiﬁcant binding affinity with these receptors. In order to validate the in silico findings, in vitro evaluation of the test compound was also carried out. In combination, catharanthine reduced the minimum inhibitory concentration MIC of tetracycline (TET) and streptomycin up to 16 and 8 folds, respectively. Further, in time kill assay, catharanthine in combination with TET reduced the cell viability in concentration dependent manner and was also able to reduce the mutation prevention concentration of TET. It was also deduced that drug resistance reversal potential of catharanthine was due to inhibition of the efflux pumps.
Objective: Rare disease Background: Pulmonary Langerhans cell histiocytosis (PLCH) can be associated with pulmonary hypertension, although this association is more prevalent with other interstitial lung diseases. However, the diagnosis and effective treatment strategies for PLCH-associated pulmonary hypertension remain controversial. Case Report: A 27-year-old woman, who was an ex-smoker, was diagnosed with multiple diffuse pulmonary cysts. At 35 yearsof- age, she developed neurogenic pituitary diabetes insipidus and was diagnosed with PLCH-associated pulmonary hypertension. Despite treatment, including sildenafil, bosentan, and prostanoids, she died at 39 years-ofage. At the autopsy examination, the heart showed right ventricular dilation and hypertrophy. Histopathological examination of the lungs showed severe hypertrophy of the media of the small pulmonary arteries. The diagnosis of PLCH was confirmed by S100-positive immunohistochemical staining. Conclusions: The autopsy findings of a case of PLCH with severe pulmonary hypertension are reported. The mechanism of pulmonary hypertension in this disease may involve a combination of World Health Organization (WHO) Group 1 pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and Group 3 pulmonary hypertension secondary to lung disease, even though PLCH is currently classified as Group 5. The use of pulmonary artery vasodilators, such as sildenafil, may be effective for the treatment of PLCH-associated pulmonary hypertension, but treatment should be considered individually for each patient. Controlled clinical trials of pulmonary artery vasodilator therapy for this condition are needed.
Background Type 2 congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL2, OMIM 269700) is a rare autosomal recessive disease, characterized by the generalized absence of adipose tissue at birth or in early infancy. Pathogenic variants in BSCL2 gene have been reported to be responsible for CGL2. The aim of this study is to analyze the clinical and genetic characteristics of two Chinese patients with CGL2, and with particular focus on the BSCL2 gene sequence variants. Methods Medical history, clinical manifestations, physical examination, laboratory data, and ultrasonography findings were analyzed for the two patients with CGL2. Blood samples from both families were obtained for genetic testing. Next generation sequencing for the 2742-gene inherited disease panel were conducted. Results Two patients had similar physical appearances including a conspicuous generalized lack of body fat since birth, extreme muscularity, face with empty cheeks, hirsutism and skin hyperpigmentation especially around necks and armpits; both had intellectual disability, alone with psycho-behavioral issues including tantrum and aggression. One patient exhibited multiple signs of overgrowth such as advanced bone age and macropenis. Laboratory data revealed hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration. Ultrasound showed hepatomegaly in both patients and renal hypertrophy in patient 2. Echocardiography exams were normal. Both were treated with low-fat, high-carbohydrate diet. Molecular testing confirmed the clinical diagnosis of CGL, specifically CGL2 by detecting a homozygous variant (c.782dupG/p.Ile262Hisfs*12) in BSCL2 gene in patient 1, and compound heterozygous mutations (c. 713G > A/p.Gly238Asp and c.782dupG/p.Ile262Hisfs*12) in patient 2. Conclusion We describe two patients with classic clinical manifestations of CGL2 confirmed by genetic sequence analysis. A novel variant in BSCL2 gene was detected in one patient (c.713G > A/p.Gly238Asp).
Background: Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is a common cancer with poor prognosis. Caveolin-1 (Cav1) and Rho/ROCK pathway play important roles in tumor metastasis, separately. However, less research was focused on the relationship between Cav1 and Rho/ROCK in ECSS metastasis. Therefore, we investigated the relationship between Cav1 and Rho/ROCK pathway in ESCC metastasis. Material/Methods: Cav1 and phosphorylated Cav1 (PY14Cav1) were examined in ESCC and in adjacent and non-tumorous tissues from ESCC patients by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting Cav1 or Rho/ROCK inhibitor was used to treat EC109, Eca109, TE1, and TE13 cells. Western blotting (WB) was used to detect Cav1 and PY14Cav1 expression. The wound healing scratch test and transwell assays were used to assess migration and invasion. Results: Cav1 and PY14Cav1 were gradually expressed at higher levels in ECSS than in adjacent and non-tumor tissues as ESCC stage and lymphatic metastasis increased, and this difference was significant (P<0.05). Cav1 was expressed at higher levels in TE1 and TE13 than in EC109 and Eca109, while PY14Cav1 was enhanced in TE1 and TE13 cells but not in EC109 and Eca109, and the difference was significant (P<0.05). TE1 and TE13 had significantly (P<0.05) stronger motility, migratory, and invasion abilities than EC109 and Eca109 cells. Silencing Cav1 decreased PY14Cav1 expression in TE1 and TE13 cells, as well as suppressing the migration and invasion of all ECSS cells, and these differences were significant (P<0.05). Suppressing the Rho/ROCK pathway obviously inhibited Cav1 and PY14Cav1 expressions, as well as significantly (P<0.05) decreasing migration and invasion of ESCC cells. Conclusions: Cav1 and PY14Cav1 were positively correlated with ESCC lymphatic metastasis and cancer stages. Rho/ROCK pathway activation promoted ESCC metastasis by regulating Cav1.
The binding affinity toward HDAC2 of the compounds was screened by Glide docking. The best scoring compounds were processed further with molecular docking, MD simulations and binding free energy studies to analyze the binding modes and mechanisms. Six compounds, 21, 23, 10, 19, 9 and 30, gave Glide scores of − 7.9 to − 8.5, which revealed that introducing –F, –Cl, triazole, benzamido, formamido, hydroxyl or nitro substituents onto the benzene ring could increase binding affinity significantly. Molecular docking studies revealed that zinc ion coordination, hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic interactions contributed to the high calculated binding affinities of these compounds toward HDAC2 and that His145, His146, Gly154, Glu103, His183, Asp104, Tyr308 and Phe155 contributed favorably to the binding. MD simulations and binding free energy studies showed that all complexes possessed good stability as characterized by low RMSDs; low RMSFs of residues, moderate hydrogen bonding and zinc ion coordination; and low values of binding free energies. van der Waals and electrostatic interactions provided major contributions to the stability of these complexes. These results show the promising potential of urushiol derivatives as potent HDAC2 binding lead compounds.
The spotted knifejaw (Oplegnathus punctatus) is a newly emerging fishery species inhabiting the Pacific Ocean around Hawaii, China, Japan and Korean Peninsula. Little information on the mechanism of gonadal development and gametogenesis in this species could be used for research and breeding work. In this study, RNA-seq technology was applied to generate a deep-coverage sequencing data of spotted knifejaw testis and ovary. A total of 262,392,754 reads (ovary 133,403,270, testis 128,989,484) were generated from the cDNA library. After filtering and assembling, a total of 113,794 unigenes were obtained with the N50 of 1658 bp. Unigenes were annotated with multiple public databases, including non-redundant protein databases (NR) (42,460, 37.31%), Swiss-Prot (33,632, 29.56%), eukaryotic Orthologus Groups (KOG) (26,195, 23.02%), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) (10,978, 9.65%), and Gene Ontology (GO) (30,514, 26.82%). By comparing ovary and testis, 4496 differentially expressed unigenes (1986 in female, 2510 in male) were identified, in which 469 were specially expressed in females and 859 in males. The expression levels of 12 unigenes were confirmed by qRT-PCR. In addition, 35,054 simple sequence repeats were identified. By GO and KEGG analyses, a set of unigenes related to gonadal development and gametogenesis were filtered. foxl2 was deduced to be a key regulator for gonadal development and gametogenesis in females and dmrt1 in males. bmp15, nanos3, sox9 and amh were likely to function in the regulation of gonad physiology and germ line cells maintenance in ovary and testis. Interestingly, p53, apoptosis, Jak-STAT and neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction pathways were found to be pivotal in regulating gonadal development and gametogenesis of spotted knifejaw in various aspects. This study provides a fundamental support for further research in reproduction biology, population genetics and functional genomics in spotted knifejaw.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a typical autoimmune disorder with multiple organ involvement and unknown etiology. It has been shown that polymorphic variants of the genes encoding key enzymes of folate and methionine metabolism may influence DNA methylation. Genomic DNA was extracted from blood samples of 150 SLE patients and 160 controls, matching age, sex, and ethnicity. MTHFR rs1801133C > T and MTR rs1805087A > G polymorphisms were genotyped by the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method. MTHFR rs1801131A > C genotype was determined by the tetra-primer amplification refractory mutation system (Tetra-ARMS), and DHFR rs70991108 polymorphisms’ genotyping was performed by PCR methods. In-silico approach was used to analyses the effects of these variations on the structure of mRNA and protein. MTHFR rs1801131AC + CC genotypes were significantly higher in the SLE patients compared to the controls (37 vs. 26%, OR 1.7 (95% CI 1–2.8); p = 0.03). The frequency of MTHFR rs1801131C allele was significantly higher in the SLE patients than the controls (22 vs. 15%, p = 0.02). However, there was no association between MTHFR rs1801133C > T polymorphism and SLE. The frequency of CT haplotype of MTHFR rs1801133C > T and rs1801131A > C polymorphisms was significantly higher in the SLE patients (20 vs. 12%), and CT haplotype may be potentially a risk factor for SLE susceptibility [OR 1.9 (95% CI 1.2–2.9); p = 0.006]. There was no association between alleles and genotypes of DHFR rs70991108 polymorphism and SLE susceptibility. The frequency of MTR rs1805087AG genotype was less frequent in the SLE patients compared to the controls, and this genotype could decrease the SLE risk (35 vs. 48%), (OR, 0.6 (95% CI, 0.4 to 0.9), p = 0.03). In silico-analysis showed that both of MTHFR rs1801133C > T and rs1801131A > C SNPs made fundamental changes in the secondary structure of MTHFR-mRNA (p = 0.0412 and p = 0.1641; p < 0.2). Also, structural analysis of the rs1801131A > C variation showed a significant effect on MTHFR function. Bioinformatics analysis showed that rs70991108 polymorphism in DHFR gene would lead to a significant alteration of the splicing process. In conclusion, MTHFR rs1801131 AC + CC genotypes could be a risk factor and MTR rs1805087AG genotype could be a protective factor for SLE susceptibility. There was no association between MTHFR rs1801133C > T and DHFR rs70991108 polymorphisms and SLE.
Hard end is a physiological disorder of pear fruit, in which the level of lignification in fruit tissues is dramatically elevated. Cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase and expansin genes (PpCAD2 and PpEXP2, respectively) exhibit higher levels of expression in ‘Whangkeumbae’ (Pyrus pyrifolia) pear fruit exhibiting this physiological disorder, relative to control fruit without symptoms. These genes were isolated from pear fruit and subsequently expressed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) to investigate their function. Histochemical staining for lignin revealed that the degree of lignification in leaf veins and stem tissues increased in plants transformed with sense constructs and decreased in plants transformed with antisense constructs of PpCAD2. The expression of native NtCADs was also inhibited in the antisense PpCAD2 transgenic tobacco. Sense and antisense PpCAD2 transgenic tobacco exhibited an 86.7% increase and a 60% decrease in CAD activity, respectively, accompanied by a complementary response in lignin content in root tissues. The basal portion of the stem in PpEXP2 transgenic tobacco was bent and highly lignified. Additionally, the level of cellulose also increased in the stem of PpEXP2 transgenic tobacco. Collectively, these results suggested that PpCAD2 and PpEXP2 genes play a significant role in lignin accumulation in transgenic tobacco plants, and it is inferred that these two genes may also participate in the increased lignification observed in hard end pear fruit.
Two heat treatments were carried out below (Ti6Al4V800) and above (Ti6Al4V1050) Ti6Al4V beta-phase transformation temperature (980°C), with the purpose of studying the effect of microstructure on the adhesion and proliferation of fibroblast cells, as well as their electrochemical behavior. These alloys were seeded with 10,000 L929 fibroblast cells and immersed for 7 days in the cell culture at 37°C, pH 7.40, 5% CO2 and 100% relative humidity. Cell adhesion was characterized by Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) techniques. Polygonal and elongated cell morphology was observed independent of Ti6Al4V microstructure. Besides, C, O, P, S, Na and Cl signals were detected by Energy Dispersive X-Ray Spectroscopy (EDX), associated with the synthesis of organic compounds excreted by the cells, including protein adsorption from the medium. In certain areas on Ti6Al4V and Ti6Al4V800 alloys, cells were agglomerated (island type), likely related to the globular microstructure; meanwhile, larger cellular coverage is shown for Ti6Al4V1050 alloy, forming more than one layer on the surface, where only Ca was recorded. Impedance diagrams showed a similar passive behavior for the different Ti6Al4V alloys, mainly due to TiO2 overlaying the contribution of the organic compounds excreted by fibroblast cells.
Compounds designed to display polypharmacology may have utility in treating complex diseases, where activity at multiple targets is required to produce a clinical effect. In particular, suitable compounds may be useful in treating neurodegenerative diseases by promoting neuronal survival in a synergistic manner via their multi-target activity at the adenosine A1 and A2A receptors (A1R and A2AR) and phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A), which modulate intracellular cAMP levels. Hence, in this work we describe a computational method for the design of synthetically feasible ligands that bind to A1 and A2A receptors and inhibit phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A), involving a retrosynthetic approach employing in silico target prediction and docking, which may be generally applicable to multi-target compound design at several target classes. This approach has identified 2-aminopyridine-3-carbonitriles as the first multi-target ligands at A1R, A2AR and PDE10A, by showing agreement between the ligand and structure based predictions at these targets. The series were synthesized via an efficient one-pot scheme and validated pharmacologically as A1R/A2AR-PDE10A ligands, with IC50 values of 2.4-10.0 μM at PDE10A and Ki values of 34-294 nM at A1R and/or A2AR. Furthermore, selectivity profiling of the synthesized 2-amino-pyridin-3-carbonitriles against other subtypes of both protein families showed that the multi-target ligand 8 exhibited a minimum of twofold selectivity over all tested off-targets. In addition, both compounds 8 and 16 exhibited the desired multi-target profile, which could be considered for further functional efficacy assessment, analog modification for the improvement of selectivity towards A1R, A2AR and PDE10A collectively, and evaluation of their potential synergy in modulating cAMP levels.[Figure not available: see fulltext.]
Major psychiatric disorders are associated with dysregulated glutamate homeostasis and deficits in the omega-3 fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). This study determined the effects of dietary-induced alterations in brain DHA accrual on cortical glutamate homeostasis in the adult rat brain. Adolescent rats were fed a control diet (n = 20), a n-3 fatty acid-deficient diet (DEF, n = 20), or a fish oil-fortified diet containing preformed DHA (FO, n = 20). In adulthood 1H MRS scans were performed with voxels in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and thalamus. Compared with controls, erythrocyte, PFC, and thalamus DHA levels were significantly lower in DEF rats and significantly higher in FO rats. In the PFC, but not the thalamus, glutamate was significantly elevated in DEF rats compared with controls and FO rats. Glutamine did not differ between groups and the glutamine/glutamate ratio was lower in DEF rats. No differences were observed for markers of excitotoxicity (NAA, GFAP), or astrocyte glutamate transporter (GLAST, GLT-1) or glutamine synthetase expression. Across diet groups, PFC DHA levels were inversely correlated with PFC glutamate levels and positively correlated with GLAST expression. Together these findings demonstrate that rat cortical DHA accrual during adolescence impacts glutamate homeostasis in the adult PFC.
Background Killer immunoglobulin receptors (KIR) are highly polymorphic in nature. KIR3DL1/3DS1 genes are known to affect HLA-B antigen binding affinity causing natural killer (NK) cell inhibition, which results into successful renal transplantation. In this study we have examined whether alleles of KIR3DL1/3DS1 play any role in changing the binding affinity with HLA-Bw4 antigen and if so then how are they associated with long term renal allograft survival. We have also evaluated plausible association of KIR3DL1 with HLA-A23/A24/A32 with renal pathophysiology. Materials and methods KIR3DL1/3DS1 allelic diversity was examined in 501 renal transplant cases and 507 controls. PCR-SSP was used to determine the incidence of KIR3DL1/3DS1 genes and HLA class-I antigens. KIR3DL1/3DS1 alleles were determined by sequencing. Expression at transcription level for KIR3DL1/3DS1 genes was evaluated in the presence of HLA-Bw4. Different statistical analyses were performed using SPSS v 22.0. p ≤ 0.05 was considered significant. Sequence based variant effect was predicted using Variant Effect Predictor. To evaluate whether variation in KIR3DL1 and HLA interaction changes the binding affinity structure based effect prediction was carried out using MutaBind and BindProf software. Results For KIR3DL1*0010101, no-risk and low mRNA expression was seen among antibody mediated acute rejection (ABMR) and chronic rejection (CR) cases. Whereas, 3DS1*01301, 3DL1*00401, and 3DL1*00402 showed susceptibility and elevated mRNA expression with ABMR and CR. Two mutations c.320C > T (rs143159382) and c.911G > T (rs35974949), present in alleles 3DL1*00402 and 3DL1*00401 were predicted to be deleterious. Reduced renal allograft survival was observed for individuals possessing KIR3DL1*00401-HLA-Bw4+. In relation to HLA-A locus no significance was observed with ESRD, ABMR, and CR. Discussion The experimental and computational data corroborated with each other suggesting susceptibility for renal allograft in presence of 3DL1*00402 and 3DL1*00401 alleles.
Leaf rust is a fungal disease that causes severe yield losses in wheat. Resistant varieties with major and quantitative resistance genes are the most effective method to control the disease. However, the main problem is inadequate information for understanding resistance mechanism and its usefulness. This paper presents Lr28 mediated genome-wide response of known and unknown genes during wheat–Puccinia triticina interaction. In this study, we prepared Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE) libraries using seedling wheat mRNA for infected and mock conditions. The libraries were sequenced on Sequencing by Oligonucleotide Ligation and Detection (SOLiD) system generating 37–48 million reads. After mapping and gene expression analysis of ~ 6–12 million trimmed reads/library, we revealed five major categories comprised of Lr28 controlled transcripts in resistant (+ Lr28) isoline (39), transcripts specific to susceptible (− Lr28) isoline (785), transcripts specific to hypersensitive-response (HR) (375), transcripts specific for basal-defense (153) and transcripts for establishment of pathogen (1616). We estimated the impact of specific genes and pathways through mapping on plant resistant gene database (PRGdb), reactive oxygen species (ROS) and phytohormone database. Functional annotation results revealed, receptor binding, homeostatic processes and cytoskeletal components as the major discriminating factors between susceptibility and resistance. We validated 28 key genes using qRT-PCR and found positive results. These findings were projected on hypothetical interaction model to demonstrate interaction mechanism. The study might have significant impact on future rust-resistance breeding through knowledge based smart genetic selection of quantitative resistance genes besides major effect R-gene.
Porcine Circovirus type 2 (PCV2) is a worldwide distributed pathogen and one of the most economically relevant swine infections. Four genotypes have been recognized and it is well known that PCV2a, PCV2b and PCV2d have a global distribution. However, the information about recombinant strains circulation and their influence in driving PCV2 evolution is a poorly studied area. In Uruguay, PCV2 associated symptoms began to be frequently observed in pigs from different farms since 2010. The main purpose of this study was to thoroughly investigate the molecular epidemiology of PCV2 in nationwide swine herds and free-living wild boars during the period 2010–2014, providing an extensive viral sequence dataset. Surprisingly, the findings revealed a predominance of recombinant strains circulation, evidencing for the first time in the field that PCV2 recombination can lead to the emergence of strains able to compete and potentially displace parental ones. In addition, the circulation of the genotypes PCV2d (29%), PCV2b (10.5%) and PCV2a (7.9%) were also observed. Since 2013, a high circulation of PCV2d was identified in the country and probably reflected the recent global scenario of the emergence of this genotype. In addition, fluctuations in the frequency of PCV2 infection in the period evaluated may suggest a limitation of biosecurity strategies implemented in Uruguay for the disease control, including the instability of vaccination practices. On the other hand, the sustained PCV2 infection observed in wild boar population and the similarity among circulating viral strains from these animals and domestic pigs, suggested that wild animals could serve as permanent reservoir of the disease. Altogether, this work put forward that many factors play a role in PCV2 heterogeneity including rapid viral spread and evolution, recombination, wide movement within national boundaries and multiples introduction events resulting of international trade. Continuous monitoring of viral epidemiology is needed to better understand the PCV2 population dynamics in Uruguay and the development of appropriate strategies are required for disease control.
2017. All rights reserved.This book presents recent research on cancer detection methods based on nanobiosensors, which offer ultrasensitive point-of-care diagnosis. Several methods for diagnosing cancer have been discovered and many more are currently being developed. Conventional clinical approaches to detecting cancers are based on a biopsy followed by histopathology, or on the use of biomarkers (protein levels or nucleic acid content). Biopsy is the most widely used technique; however, it is an invasive technique and is not always applicable. Furthermore, biomarker-based detection cannot be relied on when the biomarkers are present in an extremely low concentration in the body fluids and in malignant tissues. Thus, in recent years highly sensitive and robust new cancer diagnosis techniques have been developed for clinical application, and may offer an alternative strategy for cancer diagnosis. As such, this book gathers the latest point-of-care cancer diagnostic methods and protocols based on biomedical sensors, microfluidics, and integrated systems engineering. It also discusses recent developments and diagnostics tests that can be conducted outside the laboratory in remote areas. These technologies include electrochemical sensors, paper-based microfluidics, and other kit-based diagnostic methods that can be adapted to bring cancer detection and diagnostics to more remote settings around the globe. Overall, the book provides students, researchers, and clinicians alike a comprehensive overview of interdisciplinary approaches to cancer diagnosis.
The most widely studied DIT is caused by quinine. In DIT, antibodies predominantly bind to the platelet membrane glycoprotein (GP) IX in a drug-dependent fashion resulting in increased platelet clearance. Binding of the sensitizing drug, such as quinine, to GPIX has been proposed but is yet to be established. This work demonstrates that quinine is retained specifically by human GPIX. Quinine binding was first analyzed in wild-type mouse platelets and in transgenic mouse platelet expressing human GPIX using high performance liquid chromatography. Binding of quinine to GPIX was then measured in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing a combination of wild type, human or mouse, three human/mouse chimeric constructs and six mutant GPIX proteins. Quinine was retained by human GPIX. No detectable absorption was observed with mouse GPIX or human GPIbα. The quinine binding site was mapped to residues 110–115 of human GPIX suggesting that quinine interacts with specific residues of the GP. These findings provide further insights into the molecular mechanisms of DIT.
The modified cassava flour can be made using the method of the autoclaving cooling cycle (AAC). The stability of the warming can be seen from the decreasing value of breakdown viscosity, while the stability of the stirring process can be seen by the decreasing value of setback viscosity. The stages of research include: (1) the making of cassava flour, (2) the making of modified cassava flour by the method of treatment of ACC with a variety of flour concentration and autoclaving time, (3) chemical analysis of the moisture, ash, fat, protein, carbohydrate; The functional properties of the pasting characteristics to the initial temperature of the pasting, peak viscosity, hot paste viscosity, breakdown viscosity, cold paste viscosity and setback viscosity. The result shows that cassava flour modified by treatment of flour concentration 16% and autoclaving time 41 minutes having pasting code and pasting viscosity which is resistant to high temperature. Flour with this character is flour that is expected to maintain the texture of processed products with a paste form that remains stable. Utilization of modified cassava flour by the ACC method can be applied to the pasting product such as noodle and spaghetti, hoping to support for food diversification program to reduce dependence on wheat flour in Indonesia.
The environment in this region is very unstable and the flora are regularly subjected to drought stress. This paper reports on the influence of inoculation with the Suillus luteus on seedlings under different water conditions. Both inoculated and non-inoculated ectomycorrhizal fungi (ECMF)-S. luteus seedlings were maintained under well-watered or water-stress conditions for 3 months. The S. luteus colonization rate under water stress was higher than that in well-watered conditions. Under water stress, inoculated seedlings had greater growth than non-inoculated seedlings. In addition, under water stress, S. luteus-inoculated seedlings had greater superoxide dismutase and peroxidase activity, higher soluble protein content, lower proline content, and lower malondialdehyde content than non-inoculated seedlings. S. luteus colonization increased the rhizosphere soil-enzyme activity and the rhizosphere soil nutrition content under both well-watered and water-stress conditions. Given the positive impact on seedling growth and physiology, S. luteus shows potential for use in the arid and semi-arid regions of northeast China for afforestation.
It has to be premised that migraine can be, according to our present knowledge, primary or direct, an invalidating disturbance largely spread (>12%) in the world population, having the form of an autonomous disease, as well secondary or indirect (2-3%), in this last case being only a pathologic symptom of different etiologies. We will concentrate our attention on migraine pathogenesis, taking in consideration involved afferent and efferent functions of primary and secondary neurons, with relative neurotransmitters. Furthermore, this review is concerned with the nature, type and proposed mechanisms of migraine pain as well as recent clinical investigations.
To determine the effect of royal jelly (RJ) on the oxidant-antioxidant balance in rats with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) induced breast cancer and to compare this with the chemotherapeutic agent paclitaxel. Fifty-six female Sprague Dawley rats were divided into five groups. Except control group (n=8, Group I) others received MNU (50 mg/kg, a single dose, i.p.) to develop breast cancer: Group II (n=8) untreated, Group III (n=7) treated with paclitaxel (15 mg/kg/week, 3 times, i.p.), Group IV (n=7) with RJ (by oral gavage, 100 mg/kg/day, for 30 days), and Group V (n=7), with paclitaxel+RJ. At the end of 30 days, histopathological and biochemical parameters were evaluated in breast tissues. Levels of protein carbonyl (PC) and 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) were higher in Group V than in Group II while malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were lower in groups IV and V compared to Group II (p<0.05). Levels of catalase (CAT) in Group V and glutathione (GSH) in Group III were higher than Group II (p<0.05). Glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels did not significantly different. Decreasing effect of RJ on CA15-3 levels was relevant to histopathological results. Although RJ (with or without paclitaxel) had increasing effect of antioxidant status it was insufficient to reduce oxidative stress in breast cancer.
The fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe is a powerful model organism for cell biology and molecular biology, as genetic manipulation is easily achieved. Introduction of exogenous genes cloned in episomal plasmids into yeast cells can be done through well-established transformation methods. For expression of genes in S. pombe cells, the multi-copy plasmid pREP1 and its derivatives, including pREP41 and pREP81, have been widely used as vectors. Although recent advancement of technology brought a number of useful genetic elements such as new promoters, selection marker genes and fluorescent protein tags, introduction of those elements into conventional pREP1 requires a large commitment of both time and effort because cloning procedures need to be repeated until the final products are constructed. Here, we introduce materials and methods to construct many pREP1-type plasmids easily and systematically using the Golden Gate shuffling method, which enables one-step ligation of many DNA fragments into a plasmid. These materials and methods support creation of expression plasmids employing a variety of novel genetic elements, which will further facilitate genetic studies using S. pombe.
A study about translocation of antibiotic molecules through the efflux transporter, will contribute in determining substrate specificity. In the present study, we have explored RND family efflux pump extensively found in Acinetobacter baumannii i.e. AdeABC. Besides, another well studied RND efflux pump, AcrAB-TolC together with a non-RND efflux pump, NorM was investigated for comparative analysis. We employed a series of computational techniques ranging from molecular docking to binding free energy estimation and molecular dynamics simulations to determine the binding affinity for different classes of drugs, namely aminoglycosides, polymyxins, β-lactams, tetracyclines, glycylcyclines, quinolones and metronidazole with AdeB, AcrB, and NorM efflux proteins. Our results revealed that class polymyxins has the highest binding affinity with the RND efflux pumps i.e. AcrAB-TolC and AdeABC as well as non-RND efflux pump, NorM. The experimental validation study demonstrated bigger zone of inhibition in presence of efflux pump inhibitor than polymyxin alone thus unveiling its specificity toward efflux pump. The reported experimental data comprising of minimum inhibitory concentration of antibiotics toward these efflux pumps also support our finding based on in silico approach. To recapitulate the outcome, polymyxins shows maximum specificity toward RND as well as non-RND efflux pump and may unlatch the way to rationally develop new potential antibacterial agents as well as efflux pump inhibitors in order to combat resistance.
Ultraviolet (UV) radiation causes the harmful effects on skin by the photochemical reaction and gene expression regulation. Recent evidences have shown that long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play critical roles in a diverse range of biological functions. However, research on the effects of UV irradiation on lncRNA expression in epidermal cells is limited. The aim of this study was to identify changes in the expression profile of lncRNAs after UVB irradiation. To accomplish this, we performed a microarray analysis of both mRNA and lncRNA expression levels in irradiated skin cells. Gene ontology (GO) analysis of differentially expressed mRNAs showed that the expression of immune response- and cell membrane-related genes was up-regulated, while cell-cell adhesion-associated genes were down-regulated by UVB irradiation. Moreover, we found that lncRNAs up-regulated by UVB irradiation were associated with the regulation of gene transcription, while lncRNAs down-regulated by UVB irradiation were associated with tumorigenesis. Finally, we compiled a list of the lncRNAs that showed the strongest association with the development of non-melanoma skin cancers caused by UV exposure. These findings lay a foundation for future investigations into the expression patterns of lncRNAs with roles in the response to UV irradiation and in non-melanoma skin cancers.
Tumors develop mechanisms to recruit tolerogenic immune cells and to induce the expression of molecules that act as immune checkpoints. This regulation of the immune microenvironment favors immune tolerance to the neoplastic cells. In this study, we have investigated the prognostic role of immune-checkpoint expression markers in a cohort of resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. RNA was isolated from fresh-frozen lung specimens (tumor and normal lung) (n D 178). RTqPCR was performed to analyze the relative expression of 20 immune-related genes that were normalized by the use of endogenous genes selected by GeNorm algorithm. Patients with higher expression levels of IL23A and LGALS2 presented better outcomes. In the clustering expression patterns, we observed that patients with higher expression of immunoregulatory genes had better survival rates. Additionally, these data were used to develop a gene expression score. Since CTLA4 and PD1 were associated with prognosis based on Cox regression analysis (Z-score > 1.5), a multivariate model including these two genes was created. Absolute regression coefficients from this analysis were used in order to calculate the immunecheckpoint score: (PD1£0.116) C (CTLA4£0.059) for each case. Kaplan–Meier survival analysis showed that patients with high immune-checkpoint score have longer overall survival (OS) [NR vs. 40.4 mo, p D 0.008] and longer relapse-free survival (RFS) [82.6 vs. 23 mo, p D 0.009]. Multivariate analysis in the entire cohort indicated that the immune-checkpoint score was an independent biomarker of prognosis for OS [HR: 0.308; 95% CI, 0.156–0.609; p D 0.001] and RFS [HR: 0.527; 95% CI, 0.298–0.933; p D 0.028] in early-stage NSCLC patients. In conclusion, this score provides relevant prognostic information for a better characterization of early stage NSCLS patients with strikingly different outcomes and who may be candidates for immune-based therapies.
Activated and in vitro expanded natural killer (NK) cells have substantial cytotoxicity against many tumor cells, but their in vivo efficacy to eliminate solid cancers is limited. Here, we used chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) to enhance the activity of NK cells against Ewing sarcomas (EwS) in a tumor antigenspecific manner. Expression of CARs directed against the ganglioside antigen GD2 in activated NK cells increased their responses to GD2C allogeneic EwS cells in vitro and overcame resistance of individual cell lines to NK cell lysis. Second-generation CARs with 4-1BB and 2B4 co-stimulatory signaling and third generation CARs combining both co-stimulatory domains were all equally effective. By contrast, adoptive transfer of GD2-specific CAR gene-modified NK cells both by intratumoral and intraperitoneal delivery failed to eliminate GD2-expressing EwS xenografts. Histopathology review revealed upregulation of the immunosuppressive ligand HLA-G in tumor autopsies from mice treated with NK cells compared to untreated control mice. Supporting the relevance of this finding, in vitro co-incubation of NK cells with allogeneic EwS cells induced upregulation of the HLA-G receptor CD85j, and HLA-G1 expressed by EwS cells suppressed the activity of NK cells from three of five allogeneic donors against the tumor cells in vitro. We conclude that HLA-G is a candidate immune checkpoint in EwS where it can contribute to resistance to NK cell therapy. HLA-G deserves evaluation as a potential target for more effective immunotherapeutic combination regimens in this and other cancers.
Background It has been reported increased serum apoM levels seen in the patients suffered from obstructive sleep apnoea and chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases. In the present, we further examine the prevalence of apoM gene SNPs in COPD patients. And a new method base-quenched probe technique is established. Methods In the present study, we first used the Roche 454 GS Junior high-throughput sequencer to analyze 6 COPD samples and 6 control samples, in these samples we found 3 interesting SNPs (rs805264, rs707922 and rs707921) and then we designed primers and probes to establish a simple and quick screening method that is a base-quench probe technique and the genotype was confirmed by melting curves. With this new technique, we further determined 252 COPD samples and 248 normal subjects were applied as controls. Results A total of 19 high-confidence mutations were detected in the Roche 454, 6 mutations among them were not been reported in NCBI, but the mutation frequency was < 20%. Four mutations occurred only in COPD patients, rs751064723 is located in the first exon of transcript 1 and the rest are located in either apoM gene promoter or intron region. The results of melting curve showed that the wild-type and homozygous mutants of rs805264, rs707922 and rs707921 presented melting valley at two different melting temperatures, and the results were consistent with those of DNA sequencing (K = 1, P = 0.000). Conclusions The detection of apoM gene SNPs laid the foundation for the study of the relationship between COPD and apoM, and the base-quenched probe technique is simple, economic and accurate, and it is suitable for a large number of apoM genotyping studies.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
The present study aimed to investigate the effects of oxidation on physicochemical properties of Sheldrake meat and secondary structure of myofibrillar proteins. Sheldrake breast meat was treated with hydroxyl radical generating systems containing different hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) concentrations. Upon oxidation, the water-holding capacity of Sheldrake meat decreased while toughness increased. Myofibrillar proteins were extracted from the non-oxidized and oxidized meat and heat-treated to form myofibrillar protein gels. It was found that 2-thiobarbituric acid (TBARS), protein carbonyl content, and disulfide bond values increased with H2O2 concentration. Raman spectroscopy analysis of the myofibrillar protein gels showed that oxidation led to protein unfolding, decreased α-helix structure, and increased β-sheets, β-turns, and random coils structures. Changes in the secondary structures of proteins affected the water-holding capacity and textural properties of myofibrillar protein gels. Water-holding capacity of the myofibrillar protein gels decreased with H2O2 concentration. Oxidized myofibrillar protein gels showed reduced hardness, springiness, and cohesiveness.
The objective of this study was to determine the functional and structural properties of Maillard reaction products of mung bean [Vigna radiate (L.)] protein isolate with dextran obtained under the temperature of 80°C or 90°C with different times (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 h). The mung bean protein isolate–dextran conjugate had better solubility, emulsifying activity, and emulsifying stability than mung bean protein isolate; however, the protein aggregation decreased the solubility, surface hydrophobicity, emulsifying activity, and emulsifying stability of mung bean protein isolate–dextran conjugate. In general, these functional properties of mung bean protein isolate–dextran conjugate obtained at 80°C with lower degree of glycosylation and browning degree were better than mung bean protein isolate–dextran conjugate obtained at 90°C. Both vicilin (8S) and legumin type (11S) globulins both participated in the graft reaction, the subunit with a molecular weight of 21 kDa that contributed to 11S globulin might be the most vulnerable to dextran followed by the 60, 32, and 26 kDa subunits. Maillard reaction between mung bean protein isolate and dextran led to a decreased ﬂuorescence intensity and a bathochromic shift. The ﬂuorescence intensity of mung bean protein isolate–dextran conjugate generally decreased, and λmax of mung bean protein isolate–dextran conjugate first increased and then decreased. The grafted mung bean protein isolates had lower α-helix content but higher β-sheet content. As the Maillard reaction between mung bean protein isolate and dextran proceeded, the α-helix contents of the mung bean protein isolate–dextran conjugates were signiﬁcantly increased and then decreased, and the β-sheet content generally decreased and then increased. Excessive grafted dextran and more protein aggregation was observed in mung bean protein isolate–dextran conjugate obtained at 90°C, which induced structural changes that might have impaired the functions. Our findings suggest that conjugation of mung bean protein isolate with dextran through the Maillard reaction is an effective way of improving the functional properties of mung bean protein isolate for its application in the food industry.
In this study, changes of protein and lipid in mud shrimp during frozen storage were investigated. Protein changes were evaluated through sulfhydryl content, disulfide bond, carbonyls, surface hydrophobicity, and intrinsic fluorescence intensity, whereas lipid oxidation was measured by free fatty acids, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, peroxide value, and fluorescent compounds. In addition, radial basis function neural network (RBFNN) model was established to predict the quality of shrimp. Results indicated that the lipid changes of frozen mud shrimp were dominant. Mud shrimp stored at −20°C exhibited more lipid oxidative damage compared to those stored at −30 and −40°C. Protein denaturation occurred gradually with the prolongation of frozen storage time and protein oxidation mainly occurred after 12 weeks. RBFNN model can accurately predict and evaluate the protein and lipid qualities of shrimp stored at −20 to −40°C.
There are two known techniques as emulsion preparation methods in which oppositely charged biopolymers are attached to each other via electrostatic interaction at oil–water interface: Layer by layer (LBL) and mixed methods. The aim of this research was to compare the stability of emulsions prepared by these methods against environmental stresses (heating, salt addition and freeze–thaw) when the oil droplets covered with whey protein isolate and tragacanthin. The presence of tragacanthin improved stability of both mixed and LBL emulsions against heat treatments under 100°C. LBL emulsions also showed better stability against various ionic strengths and freeze–thaw treatments.
Background: Increased protein citrullination and peptidylarginine deiminases (PADIs), which catalyze the citrullination process, are central in Rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis and probably involved in the initial steps towards autoimmunity. Approximately, 10% of RA patients develop clinically significantly ILD. A possible shared role of protein citrullination in rheumatoid arthritis associated interstitial lung disease (RA-ILD), and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) pathogenesis remains unclear. Methods: We evaluated PADI2 and PADI4 mRNA expression in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) cells of 59 patients with IPF, 27 patients RA-ILD and 10 healthy controls. PADI 2 and 4 expression was analyzed by western blot and immunohistochemistry. Citrullinated protein levels were also quantified. Results: PADI4 mRNA and protein levels were higher in RA-ILD and IPF than controls. Furthermore, PADI4 mRNA levels showed an increase among smokers in RA-ILD. PADI4 expression was detected in granulocytes and macrophages in all groups, with the strongest cytoplasmic expression observed in granulocytes in RA-ILD and IPF. PADI2 mRNA and immunostaining of BAL cells, were similar in all groups among smokers. Overall, stronger staining was observed in current smokers. Citrullinated peptides were significantly increased in IPF compared to RA-ILD and controls. In RA-ILD, protein citrullination strongly correlated with PADI4 expression and anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs). Conclusions: These results suggest that the citrullination pathway is upregulated in IPF and in RA-ILD.
In this study, the effect of gamma irradiation treatment on the secondary structure of the whole egg-white proteins was investigated. Liquid, frozen, and dried egg-white samples were subjected to gamma irradiation doses of 0, 1, 2, and 3 kGy. Protein secondary structures were determined by Attenuated Total Reflectance Fourier-Transform Infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopy. In liquid egg-white samples, irradiation caused a conformational change from α-helix to disordered structure. Besides, a decrease in intermolecular β-sheet content was detected. On the other hand, no significant changes were observed in the secondary structure of frozen and dried egg-white samples. The significance of the results and their possible relationship to the viscosity decrease was also discussed. It was suggested that radiation-induced structural rearrangements may play a key role in the viscosity decrease.
Only weak sequence conservation exists between the single UCS protein of simple eukaryotes (She4 in budding yeast) and the two UCS proteins of higher organisms (the general cell and striated muscle UNC45s; UNC45-GC and UNC45-SM, respectively). In vertebrates, UNC45-GC facilitates cytoskeletal functions, whereas the 55% identical UNC45-SM assists assembly of the contractile apparatus of cardiac and skeletal muscles. A Saccharomyces cerevisiae she4Δ mutant, totally lacking any UCS protein, was engineered to express as its sole Hsp90 either the Hsp90α or the Hsp90β isoforms of human cytosolic Hsp90. A transient induction of the human UNC45-GC, but not UNC45-SM, could rescue the defective endocytosis in these she4Δ cells at 39 °C, irrespective of whether they possessed Hsp90α or Hsp90β. UNC45-GC-mediated rescue of the localisation of a Myo5-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion to cortical patches at 39 °C was more efficient in the yeast containing Hsp90α, though this may relate to more efficient functioning of Hsp90α as compared to Hsp90β in these strains. Furthermore, inducible expression of UNC45-GC, but not UNC45-SM, could partially rescue survival at a more extreme temperature (45 °C) that normally causes she4Δ mutant yeast cells to lyse. The results indicate that UCS protein function has been most conserved—yeast to man—in the UNC45-GC, not UNC45-SM. This may reflect UNC45-GC being the vertebrate UCS protein that assists formation of the actomyosin complexes needed for cytokinesis, cell morphological change, and organelle trafficking—events also facilitated by the myosins in yeast.
Food allergy is a considerable heath problem, as undesirable contaminations by allergens during food production are still widespread and may be dangerous for human health. To protect the population, laboratories need to develop reliable analytical methods in order to detect allergens in various food products. Currently, a large majority of allergen-related food recalls concern bakery products. It is therefore essential to detect allergens in unprocessed and processed foodstuffs. In this study, we developed a method for detecting ten allergens in complex (chocolate, ice cream) and processed (cookie, sauce) foodstuffs, based on ultra-high performance liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC–MS/MS). Using a single protocol and considering a signal-to-noise ratio higher than 10 for the most abundant multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) transition, we were able to detect target allergens at 0.5 mg/kg for milk proteins, 2.5 mg/kg for peanut, hazelnut, pistachio, and cashew proteins, 3 mg/kg for egg proteins, and 5 mg/kg for soy, almond, walnut, and pecan proteins. The ability of the method to detect 10 allergens with a single protocol in complex and incurred food products makes it an attractive alternative to the ELISA method for routine laboratories.
Rice bran is an important underutilized by-product of rice-processing industries, and a huge amount of bran is released during rice processing. It can be used as a prime source of bioactive peptides towards the development of functional food ingredients. The aim of the study was to evaluate the potential of rice bran proteins such as glutelin, globulin, and prolamin as a precursor of bioactive peptides using various in silico approaches (BLAST, BIOPEP, PeptideRanker, PepDraw, Pepcalc, and ToxinPred). Rice bran proteins majorly release angiotensin-I-converting enzyme (ACE) and dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP-IV) inhibitory peptides. Papain protease can cleave the rice bran proteins effectively compared with other proteases to release ACE-inhibitory peptides. Physicochemical studies have shown that ACE-inhibitory peptides have low molecular weight profiles. These peptides have been classified as bitter peptides with a non-toxic profile. The result of this study demonstrates the usefulness of in silico approaches and provides a theoretical basis for the development of rice bran proteins as a source of bioactive peptides. The predicted prominent ACE-inhibitory peptides could be used for the development of functional food products or nutraceuticals.
A new protease was isolated from the intestine of small red scorpionfish. After ammonium sulfate precipitation, the enzyme was purified to homogeneity by a two-step chromatography with 6.69% recovery and fivefold increase in specific activity. The molecular weight of the protease was about 24 kDa as estimated by size exclusion chromatography and sodium dodecyl sulfate–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The enzyme optimum pH and temperature were pH 10.0 and 40°C, respectively. The protease was stable at temperatures below 40°C and over a broad pH range (8.0–11.0). The Km and Kcat values were 0.36 mmol L−1 and 1.61 s−1, respectively. Interestingly, the enzyme presented specificity for casein, egg albumin, bovine serum albumin, and gelatin with obtained degrees of hydrolysis ranging from 3.14% to 6.58%, after 2 h of hydrolysis. Moreover, gluten hydrolysate analysis confirmed protein hydrolysis and solubilization. These results suggested the potential use of the protease in the preparation of food protein hydrolysates with interesting properties.
Proteins from defatted flour winged bean seed (Psophocarpus tetragonolobus) were sequentially fractionated with reference to soybean seed (Glycine max) using distilled water, 25 g/kg sodium chloride solution, 0.1 M NaOH, and 70% alcohol and subjected to physicochemical, functional, and structural analysis. Winged bean seed had globulin (31.94%) and albumin (26.46%), with denaturation temperatures (Td) of 92.82 and 82.76°C, and surface hydrophobicities (SHs) of 214.51 and 189.32, respectively, whereas soybean seed had 34.95% globulin and 32.82% albumin, with respective Td of 81.68 and 90.63°C, and SH of 210.80 and 204.66. This indicates that winged bean albumin could perform better at water/oil interface in an oil-in-water emulsion system because of it higher hydrophobicity, although soybean albumin had higher extraction rate. Both legumes’ proteins showed comparable gelation when employed for their gelling ability to form three-dimensional network in food systems. Soybean proteins had significantly (P < 0.05) higher foaming capacities, but winged bean proteins foams were more stable and soluble over broad pH, good for manufacture of ice cream and protein beverages, respectively. Though β-sheets and β-turns were the major secondary structures of both protein fractions, soybean albumin had significantly (P < 0.05) higher β-sheets than winged bean albumin, whereas winged bean globulin and glutelin had higher content of β-sheets than corresponding soybean fractions. The low amounts of β-sheets in the winged bean albumin and soybean globulin could render them more digestible than the corresponding soybean and winged bean protein fractions. Abbreviations: WB: Winged bean; SB: soybean; Td: denaturation temperature; SH: surface hydrophobicity; SH: surface hydrophobicity; W-ALB: winged bean albumin; W-GLO: winged bean globulin; W-GLU: winged bean glutelin; W-PRO: winged bean prolamin; W-ISO: winged bean isolate; S-ALB: soy albumin; S-GLO: soy globulin; S-GLU: glutelin; S-ISO: soy glutelin and S-PRO: soy prolamin.
Background: Juvenile hormones (JH) and ecdysteroids control postembryonic development in insects. They serve as valuable targets for pest management. Hence, understanding the molecular mechanisms of their action is of crucial importance. CREB-binding protein (CBP) is a universal transcriptional co-regulator. It controls the expression of several genes including those from hormone signaling pathways through co-activation of many transcription factors. However, the role of CBP during postembryonic development in insects is not well understood. Therefore, we have studied the role of CBP in postembryonic development in Tribolium, a model coleopteran insect. Results: CBP is ubiquitously expressed in the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum. RNA interference (RNAi) mediated knockdown of CBP resulted in a decrease in JH induction of Kr-h1 gene expression in Tribolium larvae and led to a block in their development. Moreover, the injection of CBP double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) showed lethal phenotypes within 8 days of injection. RNA-seq and subsequent differential gene expression analysis identified CBP target genes in Tribolium. Knockdown of CBP caused a decrease in the expression of 1306 genes coding for transcription factors and other proteins associated with growth and development. Depletion of CBP impaired the expression of several JH response genes (e.g., Kr-h1, Hairy, early trypsin) and ecdysone response genes (EcR, E74, E75, and broad complex). Further, GO enrichment analyses of the downregulated genes showed enrichment in different functions including developmental processes, pigmentation, anatomical structure development, regulation of biological and cellular processes, etc. Conclusion: These data suggest diverse but crucial roles for CBP during postembryonic development in the coleopteran model insect, Tribolium. It can serve as a target for RNAi mediated pest management of this stored product pest.
The effect of transglutaminase (TG) and ascorbic acid (AA) on the physicochemical properties of gluten was studied. The results showed that TG increased the gluten yield, storage modulus, and particle size distribution by forming a G-L bond in the protein structure. TG changes the three-dimensional structure of gluten by forming a G-L bond in the protein chains and partly preventing disulfide bond formation. However, in the high concentration of the enzyme, by reducing the ratio of lysine to glutamine, TG catalyzes the deamidation of glutamine residues and thus the K′, gluten yield, and particle size decrease significantly. The rheological behavior of glutenin macropolymer (GMP) gel was changed and the gluten extensibility increased. AA leads to an improvement in the aggregation of gluten and increases the particle size distribution. The results showed that AA leads to an increase in the disulfide bond formation and the strength of the gluten network. Adding AA reduced the delta value and increased G’ compared with the control.
The structure and functionalities of rice bran protein (RBP) oxidized by peroxyl radicals were analyzed in this study. The thermal decomposition of 2,2′-azobis [2-amidinopropane] dihydrochloride (AAPH) was used to generate peroxyl radicals. Increased oxidation of RBP by AAPH gradually generated more carbonyl (COOH) groups, which resulted in a loss of protein sulfhydryl groups. Low oxidization (≤0.2 mmol/L AAPH) could cause structural unfolding with an increase in surface hydrophobicity and emulsion properties but reducing the solubility and disulfide bonding. Moderate and high oxidization (>0.2 mmol/L AAPH) could result in soluble aggregates formed by subunits with molecular weights of 53, 49, and 36 kDa, attributed to globulin, albumin, and glutelin, increasing the solubility and disulfide bonding but decreasing the surface hydrophobicity and emulsion stability. Oxidization by low concentration AAPH induced a more unordered structure and transformation from β-turn to β-sheets, while a more ordered structure increased with aggregation.
Films of whey protein isolate/sodium montmorillonite/citric acid nanocomposites were developed by casting. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of the sodium montmorillonite clay (MMT) and citric acid (CA) content on the water vapor barrier, optical, morphological and structural properties of whey protein isolate (WPI) films. The interaction between MMT (3 g/100 g of WPI) and CA (5 g/100 g of WPI) showed lower water vapor permeability (WVP). The addition of CA and MMT caused small alterations in the optical properties without affecting appearance, in more opaque films, in relation to the WPI. The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) showed possible dispersion results for films with 1% MMT, and 5 and 10% CA. Infrared Spectroscopic peaks (FTIR) showed interaction between CA, MMT and WPI.
Background: Human clonorchiasis, caused by the infection of Clonorchis sinensis, is one of the major health problems in Southeast Asia. However, vaccine efficacy against C. sinensis infection remains largely unknown. Methods: In this study, for the first time, we generated virus-like particles (VLPs) vaccine containing the C. sinensis tegumental protein 22.3 kDa (CsTP 22.3) and the influenza matrix protein (M1) as a core protein, and investigated the vaccine efficacy in Sprague-Dawley rats. Results: Intranasal immunization of VLPs vaccine induced C. sinensis-specific IgG, IgG2a and IgG2c in the sera and IgA responses in the feces and intestines. Notably, upon challenge infection with C. sinensis metacercariae, significantly lower adult worm loads (70.2%) were measured in the liver of rats immunized with VLPs, compared to those of naïve rats. Furthermore, VLPs immunization induced antibody secreting cells (ASC) responses and CD4+/CD8+ T cell responses in the spleen. Conclusions: Our results indicated that VLPs vaccine containing C. sinensis CsTP 22.3 kDa provided partial protection against C. sisnensis infection. Thus, VLPs could be a potential vaccine candidate against C. sinensis.
Background: Trabecular meshwork (TM) plays an important role in maintaining normal intraocular pressure (IOP). Studies have shown that glaucomatous TM tissues are stiffer than those of normal tissue. The high expression of fibronectin protein (FN) and adaptor protein (LNK) may be related to high resistance to aqueous humor outflow as well as high IOP. Our concern is what factors lead to the variation of the stiffness of trabecular tissue/cells. Methods: Atomic force microscope (AFM) and Western blot (WB) analysis were applied to test TM cells of rats cultured with different concentrations of dexamethasone (DEX) and mifepristone (MIF). Rat TM cells were randomly divided into 7 groups, marked as D1, D2, D3 and M1, M2 M3 for different concentrations of DEX and MIF, respectively, and C for blank control. Results: The elastic modulus of the treated cells were 2.67 ± 0.914 KPa, 2.92 ± 0.986 KPa, 4.52 ± 1.22 KPa for D1, D2, D3, 2.06 ± 0.745 KPa, 1.23 ± 0.462 KPa, 0.467 ± 0.275 KPa for M1, M2, M3, and 2.43 ± 0.713 KPa for C group, respectively. Expressions of FN and LNK increase (decrease) with the increase of the concentrations of DEX (MIF). Discussion: We focus on the relationship between the stiffness and the expressions of FN and LNK of rat TM cells. We analyzed the correlation between cell stiffness and FN, LNK expression, discussed the relationship between cell stiffness and aqueous humor outflow resistance. Conclusions: The changes of TM cell stiffness and the expressions of FN and LNK are positively correlated.
Background: Chemokines/cytokines play important roles in the pathogenesis of chronic hepatitis C (CHC). However, their clinical characteristics and implications in treatment responses to pegylated interferon plus ribavirin treatment (PegIFN/RBV) have not been fully illustrated yet. In this study, we intended to investigate the possible predictability of serum chemokines/cytokines on the treatment response in Taiwanese of CHC, genotype-1 (GT-1). Methods: 60 Patients with GT-1 CHC infection who had been treated with PegIFN/RBV were enrolled, including 27 (45%) with sustained virological response (SVR), 11 (18%) with relapse after 48 weeks of treatment and 22 (37%) non-response (NR). Clinical parameters, seven chemokines/cytokines, CCL3, CCL4, CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, IL-10 and IFN-γ, and genotypes of rs12979860, the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of interleukin-28B (IL28B) were analyzed for their relationship to treatment response. Results: Baseline serum levels of CXCL10, CXCL11, CCL3 and CCL4 were significantly higher in NR group while comparing with non-NR group. (CXCL10: p =0.001; CXCL11: p <0.001; CCL3: p =0.006; CCL4: p =0.005). However, only rs12979860 CC genotype was the independent factors for NR in GT-1 CHC infection (OR, 8.985; p =0.008). In addition, baseline serum level of CCL4 was found to be the only independent factor for NR in GT-1 CHC patients with favorable IL28B genotype (OR, 1.134; p =0.039). Conclusions: IL28B genotype is the predictor for NR in GT-1 CHC patients treated with PegIFN/RBV, while baseline serum level of CCL4 is the only predictor for NR in GT-1 CHC patients with favorable IL28B genotype.
Background: Breast cancer brain metastases (BCBM) develop in about 20-30% of breast cancer (BC) patients. BCBM are associated with dismal prognosis not at least due to lack of valuable molecular therapeutic targets. The aim of the study was to identify new molecular biomarkers and targets in BCBM by using complementary state-of-the-art techniques. Methods: We compared array expression profiles of three BCBM with 16 non-brain metastatic BC and 16 primary brain tumors (prBT) using a false discovery rate (FDR) p<0.05 and fold change (FC)>2. Biofunctional analysis was conducted on the differentially expressed probe sets. High-density arrays were employed to detect copy number variations (CNVs) and whole exome sequencing (WES) with paired-end reads of 150bp was utilized to detect gene mutations in the three BCBM. Results: The top 370 probe sets that were differentially expressed between BCBM and both BC and prBT were in the majority comparably overexpressed in BCBM and included, e.g. the coding genes BCL3, BNIP3, BNIP3P1, BRIP1, CASP14, CDC25A, DMBT1, IDH2, E2F1, MYCN, RAD51, RAD54L, and VDR. A number of small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) were comparably overexpressed in BCBM and included SNORA1, SNORA2A, SNORA9, SNORA10, SNORA22, SNORA24, SNORA30, SNORA37, SNORA38, SNORA52, SNORA71A, SNORA71B, SNORA71C, SNORD13P2, SNORD15A, SNORD34, SNORD35A, SNORD41, SNORD53, and SCARNA22. The top canonical pathway was entitled, role of BRCA1 in DNA damage response. Network analysis revealed key nodes as Akt, ERK1/2, NFkB, and Ras in a predicted activation stage. Downregulated genes in a data set that was shared between BCBM and prBT comprised, e.g. BC cell line invasion markers JUN, MMP3, TFF1, and HAS2. Important cancer genes affected by CNVs included TP53, BRCA1, BRCA2, ERBB2, IDH1, and IDH2. WES detected numerous mutations, some of which affecting BC associated genes as CDH1, HEPACAM, and LOXHD1. Conclusions: Using complementary molecular genetic techniques, this study identified shared and unshared molecular events in three highly aberrant BCBM emphasizing the challenge to detect new molecular biomarkers and targets with translational implications. Among new findings with the capacity to gain clinical relevance is the detection of overexpressed snoRNAs known to regulate some critical cellular functions as ribosome biogenesis.
Background: The existence of mitochondria-related organelles (MROs) is proposed for eukaryotic organisms. The Amoebozoa includes some organisms that are known to have mitosomes but also organisms that have aerobic mitochondria. However, the mitochondrial protein apparatus of this supergroup remains largely unsampled, except for the mitochondrial outer membrane import complexes studied recently. Therefore, in this study we investigated the mitochondrial inner membrane and intermembrane space complexes, using the available genome and transcriptome sequences. Results: When compared with the canonical cognate complexes described for the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, amoebozoans with aerobic mitochondria, display lower differences in the number of subunits predicted for these complexes than the mitochondrial outer membrane complexes, although the predicted subunits appear to display different levels of diversity in regard to phylogenetic position and isoform numbers. For the putative mitosome-bearing amoebozoans, the number of predicted subunits suggests the complex elimination distinctly more pronounced than in the case of the outer membrane ones. Conclusion: The results concern the problem of mitochondrial and mitosome protein import machinery structural variability and the reduction of their complexity within the currently defined supergroup of Amoebozoa. This results are crucial for better understanding of the Amoebozoa taxa of both biomedical and evolutionary importance.
“Let food be thy medicine and medicine be thy food” was expressed by Hippocrates more than 2000 years ago and the health benefits of natural food products have been considered for different goals since the ancient times. As natural phytochemicals, phenolic compounds (PCs) are a major class of semi-water-soluble compounds (from fruit and vegetable sources) with one or more benzene rings that are generally found in nature as glycosides. According to a review of the literature, food scientists have studied the many health benefits of these compounds against pernicious human diseases (HDs). Today, choosing a healthy diet has become an essential part of healthy living and fitness. Many studies have shown that people who follow a specific diet (especially polyphenol-rich diets) are at a low risk for a range of chronic diseases, such as obesity, diabetes, cancer, heart disease, etc. The present research is a comprehensive review of studies on PCs with a focus on HDs that seeks to find out why some PCs have received such considerable attention all over the world. Data were collected from the Scopus database and a hierarchical cluster analysis was used with Ward’s method to analyze the data. The results showed that three countries most involved in research on PCs are USA, China, and India, and also found that quercetin, catechin, and kaempferol are the three most studied PCs. Cardiovascular diseases, cancer, obesity, diabetes, and infectious diseases are the major treatment targets for PCs. The review of the literature showed that these compounds share a common molecular mode of action against HDs. The Journal of Agriculture and Food Chemistry, Food Chemistry, PLOS ONE, and Planta Medica are also the most popular journals for covering original research on PCs. However, this study seeks to facilitate future studies on PCs through its findings. Abbreviations:ROS: Reactive oxygen species; DPPH: 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl; ABTS: 2,2′-Azino-bis (3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid); DMPD: Dimethyl-4-phenylenediamine; COX: Cyclooxygenase; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; ERK: extracellular signal-regulated kinase; GalR: galanin receptor; PKCδ : protein kinase C delta type; Bcl-2: B-cell lymphoma 2; PPARγ: peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma; LDL: Low-density lipoprotein; HIV: human Immunodeficiency Virus; HDACs; histone deacetylases; SREBP-1c; sterol regulatory element-binding proteins; GLUT: glucose transferase; RAGE: receptor for advanced glycation end products; TRAIL: tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand; TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor α; PKC: protein kinase C; IRS: insulin receptor substrate; NFκB: nuclear factor-κB; JNK: c-jun amino terminal kinase; MAPK: mitogen activated protein kinase; PEPCK: phosphoenolpyruvatecarboxykinase; G6Pase: glucose-6-phosphatase; RNS: reactive nitrogen species; VLDL: very low-density lipoprotein; HDL: high-density lipoprotein; CaMK II: calmodulin kinase II; MCP: Monocyte Chemoattractant Protein; JAK: Janus kinase; STAT: signal transducers and activators of transcription; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; VEGF: vascular endothelial growth factor; VEGFR: vascular endothelial growth factor receptor; PKA: protein kinase A; PTK: protein-tyrosine kinase;AP-1: activator protein 1; Her2/neu: human epidermal growth factor receptor 2;mTOR: the mechanistic target of rapamycin; IL: interleukin; COMT: cathecol-o-methyl transferase; UGT: uridine-5ʹ-diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase; MMP-2: matrix metalloproteinase-2; AhR: the aryl hydrocarbon receptor; CYP: cytochrome P450; DR: death receptor; TGL: triglycerides; TC: total cholesterol; EGCG: (-)-epigallocatechingallate; EGC: (-)-epigallocatechin; ECG: (-)-epicatechingallate; EC: (-)-epicatechin; ELK1: ETS domain-containing protein Elk-1; MAPK: Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase; HGFR: hepatocyte growth factor receptor; HDAC: histone deacetylase; DNMT: DNA methyl transferase; HAT; histone acetyltransferase; C/EBP-α: CCAAT-enhancer-binding proteins; LPL: Lipoprotein lipase; iNOS: inducible nitric oxide synthase.
Galactosialidosis is a lysosomal storage disease caused by deficiency of protective protein that is encoded by the cathepsin A (CTSA) gene localized on chromosome 20q13.1. Mutations of this gene are the cause of galactosialidosis that result in loss of function of protective protein. Galactosialidosis is an autosomal recessive inherited disease and has been divided into three subtypes based on age of onset and the severity of clinical manifestations. We report an early infantile form of galactosialidosis in a newborn with a novel mutation on the CTSA gene.
Background: The conversion of the epithelial phenotype of cancer cells into cells with a mesenchymal phenotype-so-called epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-has been shown to enhance the capacity of the cells to disseminate throughout the body. EMT is therefore becoming a potential target for anti-cancer drug discovery. Here, we showed that phoyunnanin E, a compound isolated from Dendrobium venustum, possesses anti-migration activity and addressed its mechanism of action. Methods: The cytotoxic and proliferative effects of phoyunnanin E on human non-small cell lung cancer-derived H460, H292, and A549 cells and human keratinocyte HaCaT cells were investigated by MTT assay. The effect of phoyunnanin E on EMT was evaluated by determining the colony formation and EMT markers. The migration and invasion of H460, H292, A549 and HaCaT cells was evaluated by wound healing assay and transwell invasion assay, respectively. EMT markers, integrins and migration-associated proteins were examined by western blot analysis. Results: Phoyunnanin E at the concentrations of 5 and 10 μM, which are non-toxic to H460, H292, A549 and HaCaT cells showed good potential to inhibit the migratory activity of three types of human lung cancer cells. The anti-migration effect of phoyunnanin E was shown to relate to the suppressed EMT phenotypes, including growth in anchorage-independent condition, cell motility, and EMT-specific protein markers (N-cadherin, vimentin, slug, and snail). In addition to EMT suppression, we found that phoyunnanin E treatment with 5 and 10 μM could decrease the cellular level of integrin αv and integrin β3, these integrins are frequently up-regulated in highly metastatic tumor cells. We further characterized the regulatory proteins in cell migration and found that the cells treated with phoyunnanin E exhibited a significantly lower level of phosphorylated focal adhesion kinase (p-FAK) and phosphorylated ATP-dependent tyrosine kinase (p-AKT), and their downstream effectors (including Ras-related C3 botulinum (Rac-GTP); Cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42); and Ras homolog gene family, member A (Rho-GTP)) in comparison to those of the non-treated control. Conclusions: We have determined for the first time that phoyunnanin E could inhibit the motility of lung cancer cells via the suppression of EMT and metastasis-related integrins. This new information could support further development of this compound for anti-metastasis approaches.
Background: Hypoxia-induced radioresistance constitutes a major obstacle for a curative treatment of cancer. The aim of this study was to investigate effects of photon and carbon ion irradiation in combination with inhibitors of DNA-Damage Response (DDR) on tumor cell radiosensitivity under hypoxic conditions. Methods: Human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) models, A549 and H1437, were irradiated with dose series of photon and carbon ions under hypoxia (1% O2) vs. normoxic conditions (21% O2). Clonogenic survival was studied after dual combinations of radiotherapy with inhibitors of DNA-dependent Protein Kinase (DNAPKi, M3814) and ATM serine/threonine kinase (ATMi). Results: The OER at 30% survival for photon irradiation of A549 cells was 1.4. The maximal oxygen effect measured as survival ratio was 2.34 at 8 Gy photon irradiation of A549 cells. In contrast, no significant oxygen effect was found after carbon ion irradiation. Accordingly, the relative effect of 6 Gy carbon ions was determined as 3.8 under normoxia and. 4.11 under hypoxia. ATM and DNA-PK inhibitors dose dependently sensitized tumor cells for both radiation qualities. For 100 nM DNAPKi the survival ratio at 4 Gy more than doubled from 1.59 under normoxia to 3.3 under hypoxia revealing a strong radiosensitizing effect under hypoxic conditions. In contrast, this ratio only moderately increased after photon irradiation and ATMi under hypoxia. The most effective treatment was combined carbon ion irradiation and DNA damage repair inhibition. Conclusions: Carbon ions efficiently eradicate hypoxic tumor cells. Both, ATMi and DNAPKi elicit radiosensitizing effects. DNAPKi preferentially sensitizes hypoxic cells to radiotherapy.
The potential of aqueous two-phase system (ATPS) for the purification and recovery of proteinase from albacore tuna (Thunnus alalunga) liver was explored. Influence of phase compositions such as type of phase forming salts, PEG molecular weight, concentration of salt and PEG, pH of the system, and NaCl addition on partitioning of proteinase was investigated. ATPS comprising PEG1000 (25%, w/w) and NaH2PO4 (20%, w/w) at pH 7.0 provided the best condition for the maximum partitioning of proteinase into the top phase and gave the highest purification factor (5.58-fold) and specific activity (20.65 unit/mg protein). The yield of 89.99% was obtained. The addition of NaCl up to a final concentration of 6% (w/w) decreased the degree of purification and enzyme recovery of proteinase. Based on electrophoresis and activity staining, the fractionated proteinases had the MW 21, 24, 30, and 34 kDa. The effect of fractionated proteinases on starry triggerfish (Abalistes stellaris) muscle hydrolysis was also studied. Fractionated proteinases were able to hydrolyze triggerfish muscle in a dose-dependent manner. Overall, results demonstrated the feasibility of ATPS for the recovery and purification of proteinase without the need for multiple steps, and the obtained proteinase can be further in preparation of protein hydrolysate.
Cells release vesicles to the surroundings, the extracellular vesicles (EVs), which may transmit biomolecules to other cells, and are found in bodily fluids, thus constituting emerging biomarker targets. Many studies on EV nucleic acid, lipid and protein composition are available, however, detailed characterization of protein glycosylation has been less approached. Here, we describe a strategy for high resolution quantitative profiling and structure elucidation of N-glycans from EV glycoproteins of three cell lines: human HEK-293, human glioma H4 and mouse glioma Tu-2449. EVs have been purified from cell supernatants by ultracentrifugation, and compared with total cellular membranes (CMs). CMs and EVs have been characterized by immunoblotting using a panel of EV-specific antibodies, electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry. N-glycans were released from membrane-derived tryptic glycopeptides with peptide N-glycosidase F, labelled with 2-aminobenzamide and analysed by NP-HPLC and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. For the three cell lines, enrichment in complex N-glycans was found in EVs concomitant to a small amount of high mannose glycans, whereas CMs were highly enriched in high mannose glycans. In HEK-293 and H4 EVs the predominant N-glycan was tetraantennary proximally fucosylated with α2,3-linked N-acetylneuraminic acid; HEK-293 EVs also contained the LacdiNAc structure. Mouse Tu-2449 EV profiles were very heterogeneous, with di-, tri- and tetraantennary proximally fucosylated glycans and the presence of peripheral Galα3Gal structure. The results opened novel perspectives to further investigate the roles of glycans in EVs biological properties and may contribute to the biomarker field in glioma.
During the initiation of protein synthesis, for instance, mRNA selection for translation seems to be mediated by different eIF4F-like complexes, which may play a significant role in parasite adaptation to different hosts. In eukaryotes, the heterotrimeric eIF4F complex (formed by eIF4E, eIF4G, and eIF4A) mediates mRNA recognition and ribosome binding and participates in various translation regulatory events. Six eIF4Es and five eIF4Gs have been described in trypanosomatids with several of these forming different eIF4F-like complexes. This has raised questions about their role in differential mRNA translation. Here we have studied further TbEIF4E2, the least known eIF4E homologue from Trypanosoma brucei, and found that it is not associated with an eIF4G homolog. It is, however, associated with mature mRNAs and binds to a histone mRNA stem-loop-binding protein (SLBP), one of two Trypanosoma SLBP homologs (TbSLBP1 and TbSLBP2). TbSLBP1 is more similar to the mammalian counterpart while TbSLBP2 is exclusive to trypanosomatids and related organisms. TbSLBP2 binds to TbEIF4E2 through a conserved central region missing in other SLBP homologs. Both SLBPs, as well as TbEIF4E2, were found to localize to the cytoplasm. TbEIF4E2 and TbSLBP2 are differentially expressed during cell culture, being more abundant in early-log phase, with TbSLBP2 also showing cell-cycle dependent expression. The new data reinforce unique aspects of the trypanosomatid eIF4Es, with the TbEIF4E2–TbSLBP complex possibly having a role in differential selection of mRNAs containing stem-loop structures.
The pathogenesis of depression is not fully understood, but studies have suggested that higher circulating levels of C reactive protein (CRP) might relate to depression occurrence. However, due to the highly variability of individual patients' conditions, the results to date are inconsistent. Considering Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of CRP gene have also been suggested to predict plasma CRP levels. In the present study, we hypothesize that inherited CRP allelic variations may co-vary with depressive symptomatology. We recruited patients with a diagnosis of depression, with or without family depression history. We then detected serum CRP levels, as well as genome CRP SNPs from participants of this project. We found a significantly higher circulating CRP levels in patients with a positive family history. Furthermore, we also identified certain inherited CRP SNPs (A allele in rs1417938 and C allele in rs1205) which could up-regulate serum CRP levels and thus be associated with depression occurrence. Our findings raise new evidence for the relationship between circulating CRP level and depression occurrence.
Acuticoccus yangtzensis JL1095T is a proteobacterium from a genus belonging to the family Rhodobacteraceae; it was isolated from surface waters of the Yangtze Estuary, China. This strain displays the capability to utilize aromatic and simple carbon compounds. Here, we present the genome sequence, annotations, and features of A. yangtzensis JL1095T. This strain has a genome size of 5,043,263 bp with a G + C content of 68.63%. The genome contains 4286 protein-coding genes, 56 RNA genes, and 83 pseudo genes. Many of the protein-coding genes were predicted to encode proteins involved in carbon metabolism pathways, such as aromatic degradation and methane metabolism. Notably, a total of 31 genes were predicted to encode form II carbon monoxide dehydrogenases, suggesting potential for carbon monoxide oxidation. The genome analysis helps better understand the major carbon metabolic pathways of this strain and its role in carbon cycling in coastal marine ecosystems.
The objective of this review was to verify the effects of avocado consumption on cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) risk factors. A systematic search was conducted in electronic databases using the descriptor avocado, combined with CVD, monosaturated fat, antioxidant, lipoprotein, and inflammation, and their respective terms in Spanish. The review was carried out in pairs, following the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis) recommendations. Initially, 234 studies were identified. After selection, eight articles were included. All the studies were randomized, most were crossover studies, and involving adult subjects. Total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-c), triglycerides (TG), platelet aggregation, and apolipoproteins reductions; besides high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-c) and serum lipid peroxidation increases; Ikappa-B protein (IkB-α) protein preservation; and NF-kappa B (NFκB) inactivation were observed. Thus, avocado consumption exerts a beneficial effect on CVDs prevention, which can be attributed to its monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA) content, especially oleic fatty acid. However, there is no consensus on the amount of avocado needed to confer such benefits.
2017. We investigated the effect of curcumin on liver anti-oxidative stress in the type 1 diabetic rat model induced by streptozotocin (STZ). Experimental diabetic rats were induced by STZ intraperitoneally. All rats were fed for 21 days including three groups of control (NC), diabetic model (DC) and curcumin-treated (Cur, 1.5 g/kg by gavage). The results showed that curcumin-treatment significantly decreased the blood glucose and plasma malondialdehyde levels, but significantly increased the plasma superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and reduced glutathione levels. Curcumin treatment decreased the activity of aldose reductase, but increased the plasma glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, glucose synthetase and glucose-polymerizing activities. Curcumin treatment significantly decreased the protein of protein kinase C (PKC) and poly ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) expression in the Cur group compared with the DC group. Moreover, the sorbitol dehydrogenase activity was significantly decreased and deterred glucose enters into the polyol pathway leading to an increased NADPH content in the Cur group compared with the DC group. Our data provides evidence that oxidative stress in diabetic rats may be attenuated by curcumin by inhibiting polyol pathway associated with down-regulated expression of PKC and PARP, as evidenced by both an increase the antioxidant enzymes levels and glycogen biosynthesis enzymes activities.
Background: Cytokine disturbances have been suggested to be associated with the Chronic Fatigue Syndrome/Myalgic encephalomyelitis (CFS/ME) for decades. Methods: Fifty female CFS patients were included in a study on the effect of the interleukin-1-receptor antagonist anakinra or placebo during 4 weeks. EDTA plasma was collected from patients before and directly after treatment. At baseline, plasma samples were collected at the same time from 48 healthy, age-matched female neighborhood controls. A panel of 92 inflammatory markers was determined in parallel in 1 μL samples using a 'proximity extension assay' (PEA) based immunoassay. Since Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) were not included in this platform, these cytokines were measured with ELISA. Results: In CFS/ME patients, the 'normalized protein expression' value of IL-12p40 and CSF-1 was significantly higher (p value 0.0042 and 0.049, respectively). Furthermore, using LASSO regression, a combination of 47 markers yielded a prediction model with a corrected AUC of 0.73. After correction for multiple testing, anakinra had no effect on circulating cytokines. TGF-β did not differ between patients and controls. Conclusions: In conclusion, this study demonstrated increased IL-12p40 and CSF-1 concentrations in CFS/ME patients in addition to a set of predictive biomarkers. There was no effect of anakinra on circulating cytokines other than IL-1Ra. Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02108210 , Registered April 2014
Background: Astrocytic aromatization and consequent increases in estradiol are neuroprotective in the injured brain. In zebra finches, cyclooxygenase-activity is necessary for injury-induced aromatase expression, and increased central estradiol lowers neuroinflammation. The mechanisms underlying these influences are unknown. Here, we document injury-induced, cyclooxygenase-dependent increases in glial aromatase expression and replicate previous work in our lab showing increases in central prostaglandin E2 and estradiol following brain damage. Further, we describe injury-dependent changes in E-prostanoid and estrogen receptor expression and reveal the necessity of E-prostanoid and estrogen receptors in the injury-dependent, reciprocal interactions of neuroinflammatory and neurosteroidogenic pathways. Methods: Adult male and female birds were shams or received bilateral injections of the appropriate drug or vehicle into contralateral telencephalic lobes. Results: Injuries sustained in the presence of indomethacin (a cyclooxygenase inhibitor) had fewer aromatase-expressing reactive astrocytes relative to injuries injected with vehicle suggesting that cyclooxygenase activity is necessary for the induction of glial aromatase around the site of damage. Injured hemispheres had higher prostaglandin E2 and estradiol content relative to shams. Importantly, injured hemispheres injected with E-prostanoid- or estrogen receptor-antagonists showed elevated prostaglandin E2 and estradiol, respectively, but lower prostaglandin E2 or estradiol-dependent downstream activity (protein kinase A or phosphoinositide-3-kinase mRNA) suggesting that receptor antagonism did not affect injury-induced prostaglandin E2 or estradiol, but inhibited the effects of these ligands. Antagonism of E-prostanoid receptors 3 or 4 prevented injury-induced increases in neural estradiol in males and females, respectively, albeit this apparent sex-difference needs to be tested more stringently. Further, estrogen receptor-α, but not estrogen receptor-β antagonism, exaggerated neural prostaglandin E2 levels relative to the contralateral lobe in both sexes. Conclusion: These data suggest injury-induced, sex-specific prostaglandin E2-dependent estradiol synthesis, and estrogen receptor-α dependent decreases in neuroinflammation in the vertebrate brain.
Purpose: Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) plays an important role in the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of RPE cells. We investigated the effects of a proteasome inhibitor, bortezomib, on the EMT in RPE cells. In addition, we assessed the influence of bortezomib on regulation of the NF-κB pathway during this process. Methods: After treatment with various concentrations of bortezomib, cell viability was analyzed with the water-soluble tetrazolium salt-8 assay, cell-cycle regulation was evaluated with flow cytometry, and cell migration was monitored with in vitro wound healing and Transwell migration assays. To induce fibroblastoid transformation, the RPE cells were treated with recombinant human transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 (10 ng/ml), and western blot and immunocytochemical analyses were performed to evaluate altered expression of EMT markers after treatment with bortezomib. To verify the effect of bortezomib on shrinkage by myofibroblastic transformation, a contraction assay of the RPE-collagen gel lattice was performed. Results: Treatment with bortezomib decreased RPE viability in a dose-dependent manner, and flow cytometry revealed that these effects were due to arrest of the G2/M phase cell-cycle. In the in vitro wound healing and Transwell migration assays, treatment with 20 nM bortezomib significantly impeded RPE migration. Treatment with bortezomib also significantly inhibited TGF-β1-induced transdifferentiation of the RPE cells. The effects on proliferation, migration, and the EMT were mediated by regulation of the NF-κB signaling pathway. In addition, bortezomib inhibited contraction of the RPE-collagen gel lattices. Conclusions: Bortezomib inhibits myofibroblastic transformation of RPE cells by downregulating NF-κB expression and prevents contraction of the RPE-collagen gel matrix. Thus, bortezomib represents a candidate putative therapeutic agent for management of retinal fibrotic diseases.
Background: Amyloid A amyloidosis is one of the most common forms of amyloidosis. It is secondary to rheumatoid arthritis, which is difficult to manage and has a poor prognosis. We present a patient with rheumatoid arthritis and amyloid A amyloidosis who was treated with tocilizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody against interleukin 6 receptor, resulting in improvement in both proteinuria and gastrointestinal symptoms; however, amyloid deposition remained. Case presentation: A 67-year-old woman who had previously been treated for rheumatoid arthritis presented with abdominal pain and diarrhea. Right renal cell carcinoma was found, and amyloid A amyloidosis was diagnosed concomitantly based on colon biopsy. The renal cell carcinoma was resected, and the non-cancerous part of the renal tissue also showed amyloid A deposition. Following surgery, protein levels in the urine increased to the nephrotic range, and administration of tocilizumab was initiated, which resulted in resolution of the proteinuria. The patient's gastrointestinal symptoms were also alleviated. However, repeat colon biopsy showed amyloid deposition. Conclusions: This case of amyloid A amyloidosis suggests that amyloid deposition indicates only structural change of the affected tissue, and that it is not amyloid deposition per se that causes the clinical symptoms of amyloidosis.
Here, we assessed whether dried tofu intake during 5-month interval walking training (IWT) enhanced increases in thigh muscle mass and strength and ameliorated susceptibility to inflammation in older women. Subjects (n = 32, ~ 65 years) who performed IWT for > 6 months participated in this study. They were randomly divided into 2 groups: IWT + placebo intake (PLG, n = 16; 108 kcal, 0.2 g protein, 5.5 g fat, and 14.4 g carbohydrate) and IWT + dried tofu intake (DTG, n = 16; 111 kcal, 9.6 g protein, 6.0 g fat, and 4.6 g carbohydrate). They were instructed to repeat ≥ 5 sets of fast and slow walking for 3 min each at ≥ 70 and 40% peak aerobic capacity for walking, respectively, per day for ≥ 4 days/week. Immediately after daily exercise, subjects were instructed to consume the supplements assigned to each group. In the DTG, after IWT, the methylation increased at 4/6 sites in the promoter region of the NFKB2 gene in the whole blood (all, P < 0.04), with an 18% increase in the average methylation of the 6 sites (P = 0.035). On the other hand, in the PLG, the increase occurred at only 2/6 sites, with no significant increase in the average methylation of the 6 sites. No significant differences were observed in increases in thigh muscle strength or cross-sectional area between the groups (all, P > 0.2). Altogether, dried tofu supplementation during IWT likely enhanced the methylation of the NFKB2 gene more than IWT alone, without detectably enhanced increases in thigh muscle strength or cross-sectional area.
This work aimed to investigate the properties of emulsions prepared with milk fat globule membrane (MFGM) and its components, which are milk fat globule membrane proteins (MFGMPs) and milk fat globule membrane lipids (MFGMLs). The results demonstrated that the particle size of emulsions prepared with MFGM and MFGMPs decreased with increasing concentrations (from 1% to 4%); however, these droplet sizes were smaller than those prepared with MFGMLs of the same concentration. In addition, the emulsion prepared with MFGMLs showed a clear phase separation, as opposed to those from MFGM and MFGMPs. These results indicated that MFGMLs alone could not contribute to the stability of the emulsions. The microscopic images also confirmed that the droplet sizes of emulsions prepared with MFGM and MFGMPs were smaller than those prepared with MFGMLs. Moreover, the emulsions prepared with MFGM and MFGMPs had lower shear stress than those prepared with MFGMLs. The MFGM and MFGMPs were found to be sensitive to pH; thus, their physical stabilities behaved according to their pH. The heat treatment results showed that the emulsions prepared with MFGM were stable over the heat of temperature ranging from 35°C to 85°C, whereas those prepared with MFGMPs were stable to heat of temperature ranging from 35°C to 65°C and became unstable at the temperature of over 65°C.
Background: The inefficiency of the current tachyzoite antigen-based serological assays for the serodiagnosis of Toxoplasma gondii infection mandates the need for acquirement of reliable and standard diagnostic reagents. Recently, epitope-based antigens have emerged as an alternative diagnostic marker for the achievement of highly sensitive and specific capture antigens. In this study, the diagnostic utility of a recombinant multiepitope antigen (USM.TOXO1) for the serodiagnosis of human toxoplasmosis was evaluated. Methods: An indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was developed to evaluate the usefulness of USM.TOXO1 antigen for the detection of IgG antibodies against Toxoplasma gondii in human sera. Whereas the reactivity of the developed antigen against IgM antibody was evaluated by western blot and Dot enzyme immunoassay (dot-EIA) analysis. Results: The diagnostic performance of the new antigens in IgG ELISA was achieved at the maximum values of 85.43% and 81.25% for diagnostic sensitivity and specificity respectively. The USM.TOXO1 was also proven to be reactive with anti- T. gondii IgM antibody. Conclusions: This finding makes the USM.TOXO1 antigen an attractive candidate for improving the toxoplasmosis serodiagnosis and demonstrates that multiepitope antigens could be a potential and promising diagnostic marker for the development of high sensitive and accurate assays.
Background: Plasma and urine levels of the potent vasodilator Ang-(1-7) are elevated in mid and late pregnancy and are correlated with elevated placental angiogenesis, fetal blood flow, and rapid fetal growth. We hypothesized that Ang-(1-7), its receptor (Mas1) and the enzymes involved in Ang-(1-7) production (ACE2 and Membrane metallo-endopeptidase; MME) are down regulated in response to glucocorticoid administration contributing to IUGR. Methods: Pregnant female Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with dexamethasone (DEX; 0.4 mg/kg/day) starting from 14 day gestation (dg) till sacrifice at 19 or 21 dg while control groups were injected with saline (n = 6/group). The gene and protein expression of ACE2, MME, Ang-(1-7) and Mas1 receptor in the placental labyrinth (LZ) and basal zones (BZ) were studied. Results: DEX administration caused a reduction in LZ weight at 19 and 21 dg (p < 0.001). IUGR, as shown by decreased fetal weights, was evident in DEX treated rats at 21 dg (p < 0.01). ACE2 gene expression was elevated in the LZ of control placentas at 21 dg (p < 0.01) compared to 19 dg and DEX prevented this rise at both gene (p < 0.01) and protein levels (p < 0.05). In addition, Ang-(1-7) protein expression in LZ was significantly reduced in DEX treated rats at 21 dg (p < 0.05). On the other hand, Mas1 and MME were upregulated in LZ at 21 dg in both groups (p < 0.05 and p < 0.001, respectively). Conclusion: The results of this study indicate that a reduced expression of ACE2 and Ang-(1-7) in the placenta by DEX treatment may be responsible for IUGR and consequent disease programming later in life.
Background: Young children are at greatest risk for malaria-associated morbidity and mortality. The immune response of young children differs in fundamental ways from that of adults, and these differences likely contribute to the increased susceptibility of children to severe malaria and to their delayed development of immunity. Elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in the peripheral blood during acute infection contribute to the control of parasitaemia, but are also responsible for much of the immunopathology seen during symptomatic disease. Clinical immunity to malaria may depend upon the ability to regulate these pro-inflammatory responses, possibly through mechanisms of immunologic tolerance. In order to explore the effect of age on the immune response to malaria and the development of clinical immunity, cytokines and chemokines were measured in the plasma of children at day 0 of an acute malaria episode and during convalescence. Results: Younger children presenting with acute malaria exhibited much higher levels of TNF, IL2, and IL6, as well as increased Th1 associated chemokines IP10, MIG, and MCP1, compared to older children with acute malaria. Additionally, the regulatory cytokines IL10 and TNFRI were dramatically elevated in younger children compared to older children during acute infection, indicating that regulatory as well as pro-inflammatory cytokine responses are dampened in later childhood. Conclusions: Together these data suggest that there is a profound blunting of the cytokine and chemokine response to malaria among older children residing in endemic settings, which may be due to repeated malaria exposure, intrinsic age-based differences in the immune response, or both.
Background: High-dose methylprednisolone pulses were one of the main treatments for anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA) associated vasculitides (AAV) but had obvious side effects. We aimed to know the impact on renal survival and identify the prognostic factors of this treatment in Chinese AAV patients with severe renal involvement. Methods: One hundred and eleven AAV patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 10ml/min/1.73 m2 or less at admission were included. The MP group (n = 57) received intravenous methylprednisolone 500 mg/d for 3 days, while the control group (n = 54) had not. The outcomes and adverse events between two groups were compared. Besides, predictors for dialysis independence and good response of intravenous methylprednisolone were analyzed using Cox regression analysis and ROC curves respectively. Results: Their median duration of follow-up was 31 (range 3 to 134) months. Eleven patients in MP group and 20 patients in control group were died (P = 0.056). Twenty-one patients (36.8%) in MP group and 29 patients (53.7%) in control group were on maintaining dialysis (P = 0.088). Twenty-one patients in MP group remained dialysis independent, more than those in control group (4 patients, P <0.01). Urine protein creatinine ratio (hazard ratio 1.730, 95% confidence interval 1.029 to 2.909, P = 0.039) and the treatment of intravenous methylprednisolone pulses (hazard ratio 0.362, 95% confidence interval 0.190 to 0.690, P = 0.002) were the independent risk factors for dialysis independence. Those patients with serum creatinine≥855μmol/L and urine protein ≥3.7g/24h at admission may have worse responses to intravenous methylprednisolone pulses (sensibility 56.7%, specificity 85.0%, PPV 100.0% and NPV57.1%). Conclusions: Intravenous methylprednisolone pulses could improve the long-term outcome in term of dialysis independence and tend to decrease mortality for Chinese AAV patients with severe renal involvement.
Background: The transcription factor TWIST1 plays an important role in the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process and in the migration, invasion and metastasis of cancer cells. OCT4, which is a homeobox transcription factor, has an important role in the self-renewal potential of cancer cells. Our aim here is to elucidate impact of ectopic expression of TWIST1 on OCT4 gene expression in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Methods: The ESCC line was KYSE30. GP293T cells were transfected with purf-IRES-GFP and pGP plasmids to produce recombinant viral particles. A semi-confluent KYSE30 culture was transduced with the prepared retroviral particles. mRNA extraction and cDNA synthesis were performed from normal KYSE30 cells and those ectopically expressing TWIST1. Expressional analysis of TWIST1 and OCT4 were performed with relative comparative real-time PCR. Results: Ectopic expression of TWIST1 in KYSE30 cells was related to its significant overexpression: nearly nine-fold higher in GFP-hTWIST1 KYSE-30 cells than in control GFP cells. This induced expression of TWIST1 caused significant upregulation of OCT4 in GFP-hTWIST1 KYSE-30 cells: nearly eight-fold higher. In silico analysis predicted the correlation of TWIST1 and OCT4 through ETS2. Conclusions: Overexpressed TWIST1 can be correlated with upregulation of the cancer stem cell marker OCT4 and the protein may play critical regulatory role in OCT4 gene expression. Since OCT4 is involved in the self-renewal process, the results may suggest a new linkage between TWIST1 and OCT4 in the cell biology of ESCC, highlighting the probable role of TWIST1 in inducing self-renewal.
Background: Human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) provide a promising cell source for ocular cell replacement therapy, but often lack standardized and xenogeneic-free culture and differentiation protocols. We aimed to develop a xeno- and feeder cell-free culture system for undifferentiated hPSCs along with efficient methods to derive ocular therapy target cells: retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells and corneal limbal epithelial stem cells (LESCs). Methods: Multiple genetically distinct hPSC lines were adapted to a defined, xeno-, and feeder-free culture system of Essential 8™ medium and laminin-521 matrix. Thereafter, two-stage differentiation methods toward ocular epithelial cells were established utilizing xeno-free media and a combination of extracellular matrix proteins. Both differentiation methods shared the same basal elements, using only minor inductive modifications during early differentiation towards desired cell lineages. The resulting RPE cells and LESCs were characterized after several independent differentiation experiments and recovery after xeno-free cryopreservation. Results: The defined, xeno-, and feeder-free culture system provided a robust means to generate high-quality hPSCs with chromosomal stability limited to early passages. Inductive cues introduced during the first week of differentiation had a substantial effect on lineage specification, cell survival, and even mature RPE properties. Derivative RPE formed functional epithelial monolayers with mature tight junctions and expression of RPE genes and proteins, as well as phagocytosis and key growth factor secretion capacity after 9 weeks of maturation on inserts. Efficient LESC differentiation led to cell populations expressing LESC markers such as p40/p63α by day 24. Finally, we established xeno-free cryobanking protocols for pluripotent hPSCs, hPSC-RPE cells, and hPSC-LESCs, and demonstrated successful recovery after thawing. Conclusions: We propose methods for efficient and scalable, directed differentiation of high-quality RPE cells and LESCs. The two clinically relevant cell types are generated with simple inductive modification of the same basal method, followed by adherent culture, passaging, and cryobanking.
In many excitable cells, KATP channels respond to intracellular adenosine nucleotides: ATP inhibits while ADP activates. We present two structures of the human pancreatic KATP channel, containing the ABC transporter SUR1 and the inward-rectifier K+ channel Kir6.2, in the presence of Mg2+ and nucleotides. These structures, referred to as quatrefoil and propeller forms, were determined by single-particle cryo-EM at 3.9 Å and 5.6 Å, respectively. In both forms, ATP occupies the inhibitory site in Kir6.2. The nucleotide-binding domains of SUR1 are dimerized with Mg2+-ATP in the degenerate site and Mg2+-ADP in the consensus site. A lasso extension forms an interface between SUR1 and Kir6.2 adjacent to the ATP site in the propeller form and is disrupted in the quatrefoil form. These structures support the role of SUR1 as an ADP sensor and highlight the lasso extension as a key regulatory element in ADP’s ability to override ATP inhibition.
Background: The nucleolus is an organelle that is an ultrastructural element of the cell nucleus observed in H&E staining as a roundish body stained with eosin due to its high protein content. Changes in the nucleoli cytomorphology were one of the first histopathological characteristics of malignant tumors. The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between the cytomorphological characteristics of nucleoli and detailed clinicopathological parameters of melanoma patients. Moreover, we analyzed the correlation between cytomorphological parameters of nucleoli and immunoreactivity of selected proteins responsible for, among others, regulation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (SPARC, N-cadherin), cell adhesion and motility (ALCAM, ADAM-10), mitotic divisions (PLK1), cellular survival (FOXP1) and the functioning of Golgi apparatus (GOLPH3, GP73). Methods: Three characteristics of nucleoli - presence, size and number - of cancer cells were assessed in H&E-stained slides of 96 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded primary cutaneous melanoma tissue specimens. The results were correlated with classical clinicopathological features and patient survival. Immunohistochemical analysis of the above mentioned proteins was described in details in previous studies. Results: Higher prevalence and size of nucleoli were associated with thicker and mitogenic tumors. All three nucleolar characteristics were related to the presence of ulceration. Moreover, microsatellitosis was strongly correlated with the presence of macronucleoli and polynucleolization (presence of two or more nucleoli). Lack of immunologic response manifested as no TILs in primary tumor was associated with high prevalence of melanoma cells with distinct nucleoli. Interestingly, in nodular melanoma a higher percentage of melanoma cells with prominent nucleoli was observed. In Kaplan-Meier analysis, increased prevalence and amount, but not size of nucleoli, were connected with shorter cancer-specific and disease-free survival. Conclusion: (1) High representation of cancer cells with distinct nucleoli, greater size and number of nucleoli per cell are characteristics of aggressive phenotype of melanoma; (2) higher prevalence and size of nucleoli are potential measures of cell kinetics that are strictly correlated with high mitotic rate; and (3) high prevalence of cancer cells with distinct nucleoli and presence of melanocytes with multiple nucleoli are features associated with unfavorable prognosis in patients with cutaneous melanoma.
Background: Immunologic factors can promote the progression of oral squamous cell carcinomas (oscc). The phylogenetic highly conserved protein Galectin 3 (Gal3) contributes to cell differentiation and immune homeostasis. There is evidence that Gal3 is involved in the progression of oscc and influences the regulation of macrophage polarization. Macrophage polarization (M1 vs. M2) in solid malignancies like oscc contributes to tumor immune-escape. However, the relationship between macrophage polarization and Gal3 expression in oscc is not yet understood. The current study analyzes the association between histomorphologic parameters (T-, N-, L- Pn-status, grading) and Gal3 expression resp. the ratio between Gal3 expressing cells and CD68 positive macrophages in oscc specimens. Methods: Preoperative diagnostic biopsies (n = 26) and tumor resection specimens (n = 34) of T1/T2 oscc patients were immunohistochemically analyzed for Gal3 and CD68 expression. The number of Gal3 expressing cells and the ratio between CD68 and Gal3 expressing cells was quantitatively assessed. Results: In biopsy and tumor resection specimens, the number of Gal3 positive cells as well as the Gal3/CD68 ratio were significantly (p < 0.05) higher in T2 oscc compared to T1 cases. In biopsy specimens, a significantly (p < 0.05) increased Gal3 expression and Gal3/CD68 ratio was associated with the progression marker lymph vessel infiltration (L1). Tumor resection specimens of cases with lymph node metastases (N+) had a significantly (p < 0.05) increased Gal3 expression. Additionally, a high Gal3/CD68 ratio correlated significantly (p < 0.05) with higher grading (G3) in tumor resection specimens. Conclusion: High Gal3 expression in oscc is associated with tumor size (T-status) and parameters of malignancy (N-, L-status, grading). Gal3 might contribute to M2 macrophage mediated local immune tolerance. Gal3 expression shows association with prognosis in oscc and represent a potential therapeutic target.
Background: Tumor Treating Fields (TTFields) are an anti-neoplastic treatment modality delivered via application of alternating electric fields using insulated transducer arrays placed directly on the skin in the region surrounding the tumor. A Phase 3 clinical trial has demonstrated the effectiveness of continuous TTFields application in patients with glioblastoma during maintenance treatment with Temozolomide. The goal of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of combining TTFields with radiation treatment (RT) in glioma cells. We also examined the effect of TTFields transducer arrays on RT distribution in a phantom model and the impact on rat skin toxicity. Methods: The efficacy of TTFields application after induction of DNA damage by RT or bleomycin was tested in U-118 MG and LN-18 glioma cells. The alkaline comet assay was used to measure repair of DNA lesions. Repair of DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) were assessed by analyzing γH2AX or Rad51 foci. DNA damage and repair signaled by the activation pattern of phospho-ATM (pS1981) and phospho-DNA-PKcs (pS2056) was evaluated by immunoblotting. The absorption of the RT energy by transducer arrays was measured by applying RT through arrays placed on a solid-state phantom. Skin toxicities were tested in rats irradiated daily through the arrays with 2Gy (total dose of 20Gy). Results: TTFields synergistically enhanced the efficacy of RT in glioma cells. Application of TTFields to irradiated cells impaired repair of irradiation- or chemically-induced DNA damage, possibly by blocking homologous recombination repair. Transducer arrays presence caused a minor reduction in RT intensity at 20 mm and 60 mm below the arrays, but led to a significant increase in RT dosage at the phantom surface jeopardizing the "skin sparing effect". Nevertheless, transducer arrays placed on the rat skin during RT did not lead to additional skin reactions. Conclusions: Administration of TTFields after RT increases glioma cells treatment efficacy possibly by inhibition of DNA damage repair. These preclinical results support the application of TTFields therapy immediately after RT as a viable regimen to enhance RT outcome. Phantom measurements and animal models imply that it may be possible to leave the transducer arrays in place during RT without increasing skin toxicities.
Background: Cerebrovascular disease (CVD) and amyloid-β (Aβ) often coexist, but their influence on neurodegeneration and cognition in predementia stages remains unclear. We investigated the association between CVD and Aβ on neurodegenerative markers and cognition in patients without dementia. Methods: We included 271 memory clinic patients with subjective or objective cognitive deficits but without dementia from the BioBank Alzheimer Center Limburg cohort (n = 99) and the LeARN (n = 50) and DESCRIPA (n = 122) multicenter studies. CSF Aβ1-42 and white matter hyperintensities (WMH) on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans were used as measures of Aβ and CVD, respectively. Individuals were classified into four groups based on the presence (+) or absence (-) of Aβ and WMH. We investigated differences in phosphorylated tau, total tau (t-tau), and medial temporal lobe atrophy (MTA) between groups using general linear models. We examined cognitive decline and progression to dementia using linear mixed models and Cox proportional hazards models. All analyses were adjusted for study and demographics. Results: MTA and t-tau were elevated in the Aβ - WMH+, Aβ + WMH-, and Aβ + WMH+ groups. MTA was most severe in the Aβ + WMH+ group compared with the groups with a single pathology. Both WMH and Aβ were associated with cognitive decline, but having both pathologies simultaneously was not associated with faster decline. Conclusions: In the present study, we found an additive association of Aβ and CVD pathology with baseline MTA but not with cognitive decline. Because our findings may have implications for diagnosis and prognosis of memory clinic patients and for future scientific research, they should be validated in a larger sample with longer follow-up.
Background: This study investigated changes in the expression of cannabinoid (CB) receptors and the effects of CB1 and CB2 agonists on detrusor overactivity (DO) associated with bladder outlet obstruction (BOO) in rats. Methods: Male Sprague Dawley rats were randomly assigned to four groups (n = 10) in each group. The control group comprised sham-operated rats. A animals in the BOO, CB1 agonist and CB2 agonist groups all underwent BOO surgery. Three weeks postoperatively, cystometrography (CMG) was performed on all rats. After confirming the presence of DO in the CB1 and CB2 agonist groups, a CB1 agonist (WIN 55,212-2) and a CB2 agonist (CB65) were instilled intravesically, and CMG was repeated. CMG parameters, including the contraction interval (CI) and contraction pressure (CP) were then analyzed. The bladders of rats in all four groups were excised following CMG. Immunofluorescence staining and Western blotting were performed to localize CB1 and CB2 and measure their expression levels in the urothelium and detrusor muscle. Results: The CI was significantly longer and the CP was significantly lower in the CB1 agonist group than in the BOO group. CI and CP in the CB2 agonist group showed the same results. CB1 receptor immunofluorescence staining signals and immunoreactive bands in Western blotting were increased in the BOO group compared with results in the control group. Similarly, results for the CB2 receptor were also increased in the BOO group, although this difference was not significant. The CMG parameters in the BOO group were significantly improved by the inhibitory effects of CB1 and CB2 agonists on BOO-associated DO. The expression of CB1 was significantly increased in the urothelium and detrusor muscle in BOO-associated DO, but no significant change in CB2 expression was observed. Conclusions: CB1 and CB2 receptors, especially CB1, play a role in the pathophysiology of BOO-associated DO, and could serve as therapeutic targets.
Background: Exposure to ambient ozone (O3) increases the susceptivity to allergens and triggers exacerbations in patients with asthma. However, the detailed mechanisms of action for O3 to trigger asthma exacerbations are still unclear. Methods: An ovalbumin (OVA)-established asthmatic mouse model was selected to expose to filtered air (OVA-model) or 1.0 ppm O3 (OVA-O3 model) during the process of OVA challenge. Next, the possible involvements of p38 MAPK and oxidative stress in the ozone actions on the asthma exacerbations were investigated on the mice of OVA-O3 model by treating them with SB239063 (a p38 MAPK inhibitor), and/or the α-tocopherol (antioxidant). Biological measurements were conducted including airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), airway resistance (Raw), lung compliance (CL), inflammation in the airway lumen and lung parenchyma, the phosphorylation of p38 MAPK and heat shock protein (HSP) 27 in the tracheal tissues, and the malondialdehyde (MDA) content and the glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity in lung tissues. Results: In OVA-allergic mice, O3 exposure deteriorated airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), airway resistance (Raw), lung compliance (CL) and pulmonary inflammation, accompanied by the increased oxidative stress in lung tissues and promoted p38 MAPK and HSP27 phosphorylation in tracheal tissues. Administration of SB239063 (a p38 MAPK inhibitor) on OVA-O3 model exclusively mitigated the Raw, the CL, and the BAL IL-13 content, while α-tocopherol (antioxidant) differentially reduced the BAL number of eosinophils and macrophages, the content of BAL hyaluronan, the peribronchial inflammation, as well as the mRNA expression of TNF-α and IL-5 in the lung tissues of OVA-O3 model. Administration of these two chemical inhibitors similarly inhibited the AHR, the BAL IFN-γ and IL-6 production, the perivascular lung inflammation and the lung IL-17 mRNA expression of OVA-O3 model. Interestingly, the combined treatment of both compounds together synergistically inhibited neutrophil counts in the BALF and CXCL-1 gene expression in the lung. Conclusions: O3 exposure during the OVA challenge process promoted exacerbation in asthma. Both p38 MAPK and oxidative stress were found to play a critical role in this process and simultaneous inhibition of these two pathways significantly reduced the O3-elicited detrimental effects on the asthma exacerbation.
In this paper the agronomic viability of Pleurotus ostreatus is studied by reusing the spent substrates previously used in crops of the same mushrooms, by applying as additives two commercial supplements at two different doses. We evaluated the qualitative production parameters in one growing season. Spent Pleurotus substrate (SPS) (6000 g bag-1) and Calprozime∗ (60 g and 120 g), are substrates that promote protein content, firmness, and texture in harvested mushrooms. When the SPS is enriched with the commercial nutritional supplement Calprozime∗, agronomic performance is remarkably improved, insignificantly differing from the commercial substrate used as a control in most parameters. These formulations could be a low cost substrate with selective and balanced nutrients for the growth and development of oyster mushrooms.
Whole-genome sequencing of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is one of the milestones of genome research which complemented the understanding in basic biology and expanded the field of yeast biotechnology. It was the first fungus as well as first eukaryote used for reverse genetic experiments, which created consensus among research community to sequence the whole genome, followed by the creation of species-specific database, thus further sustaining and strengthening the status of model organism. Thereafter, the successive completion of genome sequencing of fission yeast, i.e., Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Neurospora crassa, a genetic model, created a revolution in the genome biology of non-filamentous fungi. Further, in very less time, a significant number of yeast genomes have been sequenced, annotated, and released in public domain. Genome-sequencing program provides enormous data on genes, proteins, and metabolic pathways within the fungal kingdom, thereby helping in solving the long awaited problems of the medical science, ecological science, bioenergy, and several fermentation and enzyme-based biotech industries. Interestingly, yeast genomics have great potential in understanding human health, developing novel drugs, and harvesting stored energy from lignocellulosic substrate. With the significant rise in sequenced yeast genomes, the knowledge of genes encoding proteins, antibiotics, enzymes, metabolites, and their pathways has increased exponentially. Till date, over hundreds of genome sequences of several strains of domesticated and wild yeast are available in public domain; however, not a single review inclusively on the basic and applied aspects of yeast genome has appeared. This chapter is an attempt to review the significance of yeast genome-sequencing information in basic biology and biotechnology.
To evaluate the prognostic value of serum procalcitonin (PCT), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in patients with sepsis. Sixty-six patients with sepsis were recruited in the 6th affiliated hospital of Wenzhou Medical University from February 2012 to April 2016. According to status of death or survival within 4 weeks, the patients were divided into death group (n=14) and survival group (n=52). The serum PCT concentration on the day of hospitalization was measured by double antibody immunosorbent assay, hs-CRP serum level was measured by immunoturbidimetric assay, and IL-6 serum concentration was tested by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of the included 66 patients. Serum PCT, hs-CRP, and IL-6 were compared between the two groups. The prognostic performance of serum PCT, hs-CRP, and IL-6 in patients with sepsis was evaluated through sensitivity, specificity, and area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC). The serum concentrations of PCT, hs-CRP, and IL-6 in the death group were significantly higher than those of the survival group on the day of hospitalization (P<0.05). The sensitivities of serum PCT, hs-CRP, and IL-6 to predict the mortality of septic patients within 4 weeks were 94.64%, 83.93%, and 82.14%, and the specificities were 73.33%, 64.29%, and 71.43%, respectively. The areas under the ROC curves were 0.88, 0.76, and 0.77. The serum levels of PCT, hs-CRP and IL-6 were significantly elevated in the death group, which could be used as serological markers to predict the risk of death for sepsis patients within 4 weeks.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterized by decreased air flow and is associated with abnormal chronic inflammation in the airways and extensive tissue remodeling. Matrix metalloproteinase-7 (MMP7) is produced primarily by the epithelium of many organs, including the lungs. A functional MMP7-181A>G (rs11568818) promoter polymorphism influences the binding of nuclear regulatory proteins modulating the transcription of the gene. In this study, we genotyped 191 patients with COPD for MMP7 -181A>G single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and 215 control subjects using the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method and explored the role of that polymorphism as a risk factor for COPD. There were no differences in the genotype and allele distribution of the MMP7 -181A>G SNP between the COPD patients and control groups (p = 0.341 and p = 0.214). However, the carries of the G allele (AG and GG genotypes), appeared to develop COPD significantly earlier than those with the AA genotype (61.01 ± 10.11 vs. 64.87 ± 9.00 years, p = 0.032). When the genotype distribution was studied only in the groups of patients (n = 76) and controls (n = 106) younger than 60 years, we found significantly higher frequency of the carriers of the G allele in COPD patients than in the controls, determining about a 3-fold higher risk for COPD [odds ratio (OR) -3.33, 1.36-8.14, p = 0.008 for GG, and OR = 2.91, 1.38-6.13, p = 0.005 for AG+GG]. Based on our results, the MMP7 -181A>G promoter variant may influence early development of COPD. This effect could be attributed to the increased production of the enzyme resulting in enhanced airway wall protein degradation and injury.
Background: Danshen is a common traditional Chinese medicine used to treat neoplastic and chronic inflammatory diseases in China. However, the effects of Danshen on human oral cancer cells remain relatively unknown. This study investigated the antiproliferative effects of a Danshen extract on human oral cancer SAS, SCC25, OEC-M1, and KB drug-resistant cell lines and elucidated the possible underlying mechanism. Methods: We investigated the anticancer potential of the Danshen extract in human oral cancer cell lines and an in vivo oral cancer xenograft mouse model. The expression of apoptosis-related molecules was evaluated through Western blotting, and the concentration of in vivo apoptotic markers was measured using immunohistochemical staining. The antitumor effects of 5-fluorouracil and the Danshen extract were compared. Results: Cell proliferation assays revealed that the Danshen extract strongly inhibited oral cancer cell proliferation. Cell morphology studies revealed that the Danshen extract inhibited the growth of SAS, SCC25, and OEC-M1 cells by inducing apoptosis. The Flow cytometric analysis indicated that the Danshen extract induced cell cycle G0/G1 arrest. Immunoblotting analysis for the expression of active caspase-3 and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein indicated that Danshen extract-induced apoptosis in human oral cancer SAS cells was mediated through the caspase pathway. Moreover, the Danshen extract significantly inhibited growth in the SAS xenograft mouse model. Furthermore, the Danshen extract circumvented drug resistance in KB drug-resistant oral cancer cells. Conclusion: The study results suggest that the Danshen extract could be a potential anticancer agent in oral cancer treatment.
Background: The burden of disease caused by Streptococcus agalactiae has increased significantly among older adults in the last decades. Group B streptococcus infection can be associated with invasive disease and severe clinical syndromes, such as meningitis and endocarditis. Case presentation: We present the case of a 56-year-old man who developed multiple mycotic aneurysms of the right hepatic artery and massive splenic infarction as rare complications of Streptococcus agalactiae infective endocarditis. The patient underwent urgent right hepatic artery ligation and splenectomy. The postoperative course was complicated by an episode of hemobilia due to the rupture of a partially thrombosed mycotic aneurysm into the biliary tree. Thus, selective radiological embolization of the left hepatic artery branches was necessary. Conclusion: To our knowledge, this is the first case reported of infected aneurysms of visceral arteries caused by Group B streptococcus infection. Clinical and laboratory findings were non-specific, while imaging features with computed tomography scan and angiography were highly suggestive. In our case, early recognition, culture-specific intravenous antibiotics and urgent surgical treatment combined with interventional radiology played a decisive role in the final result.
Background: SOCS3 (suppressor of cytokine signaling 3) is a negative regulator of JAK/STAT3 signaling pathway and participates in the regulation of lung inflammation in a mouse model with acute lung injury (ALI). However, it is not well understood how SOCS3 regulates lung inflammation in the ALI mouse model. Method: In the present study, we investigated the effects of SOCS3 on modulation of Ly6C(+) monocyte phenotypes in a mouse model with lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI. Conditional SOCS3(Lyz2cre) mice with myeloid cell-restricted depletion of SOCS3 gene were created by breeding transgenic Lyz2Cre mice with SOCS3(fl/fl) mice. Wilde-type (WT) and SOCS3(Lyz2cre) mice were intratracheal instilled with 5 mg/kg LPS for 2 days. Lung, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and blood were collected for analysis by flow cytometry, ELISA, qRT-PCR and Western blot analysis. Results: The studies in the ALI mouse model revealed that myeloid cell-restricted SOCS3 deficiency exacerbated the severity of ALI as compared to the WT mice. The increased severity of ALI in SOCS3-deficient mice was associated with higher populations of neutrophils, T lymphocytes and Ly6C(+) monocytes in the inflamed lung tissues. In addition, CCR2 and CXCL15 were elevated, and accompanied by greater expression and activation of STAT3 in the lung of SOCS3-deficient mice. SOCS3-deficient bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) expressed a higher amount of TNF-alpha, and adoptive transfer of the SOCS3-deficient Ly6C(+) BMDMs into WT mice enhanced the severity of ALI than adoptive transfer of WT control BMDMs. However, depletion of Ly6C(+) circulating monocytes by anti-Ly6C(+) neutralizing antibody moderately attenuated neutrophil infiltration and resulted in lower prevalence of Ly6C(+) cells in the lung of treated mice. Conclusion: Myeloid cell-restricted lack of SOCS3 induced more severe ALI through modulation of Ly6C(+) subtype macrophages. The results provide insight into a new role of SOCS3 in modulation of Ly6C(+) monocyte phenotypes and provide a novel therapeutic strategy for ALI by molecular intervention of macrophages subtypes.
This study investigated the effects of calcium on fluorosis-induced impairment in learning and memory of offspring rats. Methods Seventy-five newly weaned female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into five groups as follows: Control group (Control) drank tap water, and ate the normal diet (calcium content of 0.79%); fluoride group (F) drank 100 mg/L NaF solution, and ate the normal diet; low calcium group (LCa) drank tap water, and ate the low calcium diet (calcium content of 0.063%); low calcium fluoride group (F+LCa) drank 100 mg/L NaF solution, and ate the low calcium diet; high calcium fluoride group (F+HCa) drank 100 mg/L NaF solution, and ate the high calcium diet (calcium content of 7%). After exposing rats to fluoride for three months, male and female rats were mated and 14 and 28 days old offspring were obtained as experimental subjects. Examinations determined the submicroscopic parameters of the synaptic interface and expression levels of specific proteins: doublecortin (DCX) and synaptophysin (p38). (1) High fluorosis significantly reduced synapse density, length of synaptic active zone, thickness of postsynaptic density, and led to abnormal changes in the structural parameter of synaptic gap width, which was significantly reduced or increased. High dietary calcium significantly reversed the abnormal changes in structural parameters, and low calcium aggravated these variations. (2) Dietary calcium resulted in nonsignificant effect on expression levels of DCX and p38. The results suggested that dietary calcium significantly affected hippocampal synaptic plasticity of offspring of mothers exposed to water fluorosis, but its molecular mechanism may not be related to the expression of DCX and p38 in the brain. The findings also demonstrate the important effects of maternal exposure to water fluorosis on offspring brain functions before water improvement.
Although peripheral nervous system anomalies are observed widely in RA, very few case reports on changes in the central nervous system (CNS) have been published. In recent years, the pathophysiology of CNS involvement that can occur in RA has attracted a great deal of attention. Emphasis has focused on the possibility that CNS involvement occurs due to blood–brain barrier (BBB) damage associated with chronic inflammation. The present study was performed to investigate the possible effects of BBB dysfunction and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker therapy on BBB function, which may cause CNS damage in patients with RA. 58 RA patients [47 (81.0%) females, 11 (19.0%) males] and 34 healthy controls [24 (70.6%) females, 10 (29.4%) males] were included in the study. All RA patients were on synthetic DMARD therapy at the beginning. Thirty patients continued DMARD therapy, and 28 patients with high disease activity were started on TNF blocker therapy. All demographic characteristics of the patients were recorded. Disease activity was evaluated using the Disease Activity Score 28-joint count C reactive protein. The Mini-Mental State Examination was used to evaluate cognitive function, and the Fazekas scale was used to assess cranial lesions visualized by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Patients’ peripheral blood S100β, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), claudin, interleukin (IL)-17, and IL-1β levels were measured at the beginning of the study and after 6 months. Demographic characteristics (including sex, age, and body mass index) were similar in the RA and control groups. S100β and GFAP levels were significantly higher in the patient group than in the control group. In the group that was started on TNF blocker therapy, S100β and GFAP levels were significantly decreased 6 months after commencement of treatment. No difference was observed between the RA and control groups in terms of hyperintense lesions seen on cranial MRI. The S100β levels increased with lesions in the deep white matter seen on cranial MRI in patients with RA. In conclusion, next to decreasing disease activity and joint erosions by suppressing inflammation, anti-TNF therapy in RA can also suppress potential CNS involvement linked to BBB (blood–brain barrier) dysfunction. Further studies with broader participation and longer patient follow-up are needed to reinforce this hypothesis.
Background: Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from Gram-negative bacteria cause innate immune responses in animals and plants. The molecules involved in LPS signaling in animals are well studied, whereas those in plants are not yet as well documented. Recently, we identified Arabidopsis AtLBR-2, which binds to LPS from Pseudomonas aeruginosa (pLPS) directly and regulates pLPS-induced defense responses, such as pathogenesis-related 1 (PR1) expression and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. In this study, we investigated the pLPS-induced transcriptomic changes in wild-type (WT) and the atlbr-2 mutant Arabidopsis plants using RNA-Seq technology. Results: RNA-Seq data analysis revealed that pLPS treatment significantly altered the expression of 2139 genes, with 605 up-regulated and 1534 down-regulated genes in WT. Gene ontology (GO) analysis on these genes showed that GO terms, "response to bacterium", "response to salicylic acid (SA) stimulus", and "response to abscisic acid (ABA) stimulus" were enriched amongst only in up-regulated genes, as compared to the genes that were down-regulated. Comparative analysis of differentially expressed genes between WT and the atlbr-2 mutant revealed that 65 genes were up-regulated in WT but not in the atlbr-2 after pLPS treatment. Furthermore, GO analysis on these 65 genes demonstrated their importance for the enrichment of several defense-related GO terms, including "response to bacterium", "response to SA stimulus", and "response to ABA stimulus". We also found reduced levels of pLPS-induced conjugated SA glucoside (SAG) accumulation in atlbr-2 mutants, and no differences were observed in the gene expression levels in SA-treated WT and the atlbr-2 mutants. Conclusion: These 65 AtLBR-2-dependent up-regulated genes appear to be important for the enrichment of some defense-related GO terms. Moreover, AtLBR-2 might be a key molecule that is indispensable for the up-regulation of defense-related genes and for SA signaling pathway, which is involved in defense against pathogens containing LPS.
This study aimed to examine the degree of adherence to nutritional recommendations among 1,175 pregnant Spanish women and the factors associated with such adherence to pre-pregnancy and during the first half of pregnancy. Data were collected during June 2004–March 2007 and included socio-demographic and lifestyle factors. Crude and adjusted odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were computed using logistic regression models to identify factors associated with adherence to dietary recommendations. Before pregnancy, slightly less than one quarter of the pregnant women (21 percent) did not meet the recommended intake of both vegetables and cereals, and 50 percent did not meet the recommended intake of fruits. Yet most of the participants exceeded the recommended values for proteins. During pregnancy, the adherence for all food types decreased. Factors associated with adherence to the nutritional recommendations were similar before and during pregnancy. Adherence to the Spanish Society of Community Nutrition dietary recommendations was lower among pregnant women who were younger, from a low social class, smokers, and had a low level of physical activity. These findings suggest that nutritional education should become an essential part of antenatal care.
A novel antisense transcript was identified in the human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) promoter region, suggesting that the hTERT promoter is bidirectional. This transcript, named hTERT antisense promoter-associated (hTAPAS) RNA, is a 1.6 kb long non-coding RNA. hTAPAS transcription is initiated 167 nucleotides upstream of the hTERT transcription start site and is present in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm. Surprisingly, we observed that a large fraction of the hTERT polyadenylated RNA is localized in the nucleus, suggesting this might be an additional means of regulating the cellular abundance of hTERT protein. Both hTAPAS and hTERT are expressed in immortalized B-cells and human embryonic stem cells but are not detected in normal somatic cells. hTAPAS expression inversely correlates with hTERT expression in different types of cancer samples. Moreover, hTAPAS expression is not promoted by an hTERT promoter mutation (-124 C > T). Antisense-oligonucleotide mediated knockdown of hTAPAS results in an increase in hTERT expression. Conversely, ectopic overexpression of hTAPAS down regulates hTERT expression, suggesting a negative role in hTERT gene regulation. These observations provide insights into hTAPAS as a novel player that negatively regulates hTERT expression and may be involved in telomere length homeostasis.
Strilbytska et al. Diverse physiological pathways have been shown to regulate longevity, stress resistance, fecundity and feeding rates, and metabolism in Drosophila. Here we tesed physiological traits in flies with Rheb and Myc- Rheb overexpressed in gut progenitor cells, known as enteroblasts (EBs). We found that activation of TOR signaling by overexpression of Rheb in EBs decreases survival and stress resistance. Additionall, we showed that Myc co-expression in EBs reduces fly fecundity and feeding rate. Rheb overexpression enhanced the level of whole body glucose. Higher relative expression of the metabolic genes dilps, akh, tobi and pepck was, however, observed. The role of TOR/Myc in the regulation of genes involved in lipid metabolism and protein synthesis was established. We showed a significant role of TOR/Myc in EBs in the regulation of the JAK/STAT, EGFR and insulin signaling pathways in Drosophila gut. These results highlight the importance of the balance between all different types of cells and confirm previous studies demonstrating that promotion of homeostasis in the intestine of Drosophila may function as a mechanism for the extension of organismal lifespan. Overall, the results demonstrate a role of TOR signaling and its downstream target Myc in EB cells in the regulation of Drosophila physiological processes.
A growing body of literature examines the effects of superdiffusive subballistic movement premeasurement (aging or time lag) on observations arising from single-particle tracking. A neglected aspect is the finite lifetime of these Lévy walkers, be they proteins, cells, or larger structures. We examine the effects of aging on the motility of mortal walkers, and discuss the means by which permanent stopping of walkers may be categorized as arising from "natural" death or experimental artifacts such as low photostability or radiation damage. This is done by comparison of the walkers' mean squared displacement (MSD) with the front velocity of propagation of a group of walkers, which is found to be invariant under time lags. For any running time distribution of a mortal random walker, the MSD is tempered by the stopping rate θ. This provides a physical interpretation for truncated heavy-tailed diffusion processes and serves as a tool by which to better classify the underlying running time distributions of random walkers. Tempering of aged MSDs raises the issue of misinterpreting superdiffusive motion which appears Brownian or subdiffusive over certain time scales.
The ruminants are fed on fibrous roughage feeds like straws and stovers, which can be rarely consumed by monogastric animals and human beings. The complex microbiome of the gastrointestinal tract of ruminants and non-ruminant herbivores serves as an exceptionally effective system for saccharification and fermentation of ingested plant biomass and converting it into microbial proteins, ammonia, short chain volatile organic acids and gases such as CO2, H2 and CH4. The anaerobic rumen fungi play a vital role for making the lignocellulosic feed ready for hydrolysis by bacteria and protozoa. These three rumen microbes, which are directly involved in fibre degradation, do not compete with each other for the feed, rather they help each other and synergistically degrade the feed. The fourth microbial group (archaea) helps indirectly by using the end product of fermentation for reducing oxidized compounds like CO2, SO4, NO3 and organic compounds with double/triple covalent bonds and does not allow end product inhibition. The inoculation of the rumen of domesticated animals with superior strains of anaerobic rumen fungi results in a significant increase in fibrous feed components and elimination of fungi from the rumen that results in a significant depression in fibre degradation.
The encounter in the 1960s between molecular biology and evolutionary biology had short- and long-term consequences. Comparison of protein sequences suggested that evolution proceeded at a regular pace, obeying a molecular clock. It rapidly led evolutionary biologists to give neutral variations a larger role in their models. The development of genetic engineering technologies opened the door to progressive replacement of the abstract notions of gene and gene mutation hitherto used by evolutionary biologists by precise molecular descriptions. The precise structural and functional characterization of mutations assumed an increasing role and supported the introduction of a hierarchy between genes and between gene mutations that is clearly visible in evolutionary developmental biology. I will examine how far the accumulation of molecular data has challenged the Modern Synthesis established in the 1940s. In particular, different molecular mechanisms have been successively proposed to support a Lamarckian form of evolution. My conclusion will be that molecularization of evolutionary biology is still in its infancy, and that the Modern Synthesis will be replaced by a functional synthesis in which models of evolutionary biology and a description of molecular mechanisms will be intimately dovetailed.
2018. All rights reserved. Autoimmune retinopathy (AIR) is a general term for rare disease entities that include cancer associated retinopathy (CAR), melanoma-associated retinopathy (MAR), bilateral diffuse uveal melanocytic proliferation (BDUMP), and non-paraneoplastic autoimmune retinopathies (npAIR). Although the exact pathophysiology is unknown, autoimmune retinopathy occurs when a tumor expresses protein antigens that are normally present in the retina. This results in molecular mimicry and immunologic cross reactivity leading to retinal degeneration. AlR typically presents with progressive bilateral or asymmetric, painless, vision loss occurring over days to years. Visual symptoms are usually worse than the clinical findings and include photo aversion, prolonged glare after light exposure, decreased visual acuity, dyschromatopsia, central scotomas, nyctalopia, shimmering lights, photopsias, prolonged dark adaptation, midperipheral (ring) scotomas, and more extensive peripheral visual field defects. Although the initial retinal examination is often unremarkable, clinical findings may include subtle retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) changes to marked RPE bone spicules, arterial sheathing or attenuation, periphlebitis, disc pallor, and rarely low-grade inflammation in the vitreous and/or anterior chamber. The diagnosis can be made using a combination of the patient's history, clinical exam, and a multitude of diagnostic tests including spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), electrophysiology, fundus autofluorescence, visual field testing, and serology for antiretinal antibodies. All patients suspected of having AIR require a thorough work-up for malignancy. Early diagnosis and treatment can prolong life and prevent or reverse visual acuity loss in some patients.
2017. One of the most distress environmental issues of the recent decades is the burden of pollution in soil and water. Till date, the quality of water and soil has been degraded as a result of excess inputs of toxic metals and several other inorganic pollutants through many anthropogenic activities like agricultural runoff, sewage, and industrial waste disposals. There are so many problems associated with inorganic contamination in soil which directly or indirectly affects plant health. When the consequences of inorganic contaminants are lethal, plants may die out, while the sublethal effects are more precarious, as the surviving plants and animals can accumulate some of the pollutants in their body parts giving rise to biomagnification. In order to cope with the toxicity caused by inorganic pollutants like metal and metalloids, plant has developed a number of adaptation strategies. Adaptive strategies developed by plants against the inorganic contaminants comprise antioxidant defense system, metal complexation at cell wall plasma membrane, sequestration within vacuoles, induction of stress proteins, chelation and sequestration through specific ligands, etc.
Coagulation factor VII (FVII) is a key enzyme of the extrinsic coagulation cascade that is predominantly produced by hepatocytes. The F7 gene mutations cause FVII deficiency with considerable molecular and phenotypic heterogeneity. We characterized the molecular alterations of the F7 gene and their corresponding mRNA transcripts in Iranian patients from eight unrelated families. The mutations were detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-sequencing of all F7 gene exons, their flanking intronic sequences, as well as their corresponding cDNA fragments. Homozygous P303T, C91S and R304Q mutations were detected in patient 2, patient 5, and patient 6, respectively. Patient 7 was a compound heterozygote for S282R and H348R and patient 8 was a compound heterozygote for R304Q and IVS7+7A>G mutations. Furthermore, our investigation revealed three heterozygous individuals, patient 1 and patient 3 with the A244V mutation who were symptomatic and patient 4 with V(-39)I mutation who was also asymptomatic. The F7 mRNA expression analysis revealed that, except the transcript of V(-39)I, other mutation-harboring transcripts were expressed at detectable levels. In conclusion, this report reinforces the genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity of FVII deficiency. The findings of the mRNA study implied that decreased FVII protein activity subsequent to missense mutations does not completely reflect the degradation of mutation-harboring mRNA.
Small molecule (SM) leads in the early drug discovery pipeline are progressed primarily based on potency against the intended target(s) and selectivity against a very narrow slice of the proteome. So, why is there a tendency to wait until SMs are matured before probing for a deeper mechanistic understanding? For one, there is a concern about the interpretation of complex -omic data outputs and the resources needed to test these hypotheses. However, with recent advances in broad-endpoint profiling assays that have companion reference databases and refined technology integration strategies, we argue that data complexity can translated into meaningful decision-making. This same strategy can also prioritize phenotypic screening hits to increase the likelihood of accessing unprecedented target space. In this perspective we will highlight a cohesive process that supports SM hit prosecution, providing a data-driven rationale and a suite of methods for direct identification of SM targets driving biologically relevant endpoints.
Background: Transplanting myogenic cells and scaffolds for tissue engineering in skeletal muscle have shown inconsistent results. One of the limiting factors is neovascularization at the recipient site. Low intensity shockwave therapy (Li-SWT) has been linked to increased tissue regeneration and vascularization, both integral to survival and integration of transplanted cells. This study was conducted to demonstrate the response of myoblasts and skeletal muscle to Li-SWT. Method: Primary isolated human myoblasts and explants were treated with low intensity shockwaves and subsequently cell viability, proliferation and differentiation were tested. Cardiotoxin induced injury was created in tibialis anterior muscles of 28 mice, and two days later, the lesions were treated with 500 impulses of Li-SWT on one of the legs. The treatment was repeated every third day of the period and ended on day 14 after cardiotoxin injection. The animals were followed up and documented up to 21 days after cardiotoxin injury. Results: Li-SWT had no significant effect on cell death, proliferation, differentiation and migration, the explants however showed decreased adhesion. In the animal experiments, qPCR studies revealed a significantly increased expression of apoptotic, angiogenic and myogenic genes; expression of Bax, Bcl2, Casp3, eNOS, Pax7, Myf5 and Met was increased in the early phase of regeneration in the Li-SWT treated hind limbs. Furthermore, a late accumulative angiogenic effect was demonstrated in the Li-SWT treated limbs by a significantly increased expression of Angpt1, eNOS, iNOS, Vegfa, and Pecam1. Conclusion: Treatment was associated with an early upregulation in expression of selected apoptotic, pro-inflammatory, angiogenic and satellite cell activating genes after muscle injury. It also showed a late incremental effect on expression of pro-angiogenic genes. However, we found no changes in the number of PAX7 positive cells or blood vessel density in Li-SWT treated and control muscle. Furthermore, Li-SWT in the selected doses did not decrease survival, proliferation or differentiation of myoblasts in vitro.
Introduction. Marfan syndrome is a hereditary connective tissue disorder caused by impaired synthesis of a fibrillin protein. This results in a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations, in particular cardiovascular, skeletal and ocular features. Marfanoid phenotype is defined as manifesting some features of Marfan syndrome, but not fulfilling the criteria of the diagnosis. Abnormal synthesis of the fibrillin is the reason of impairment of elastic fibers. This effects in increasing arterial stiffness, which can be characterized by pulse wave velocity (PWV) and augmentation index (AI). Material and methods. Study included 72 patients suspected of Marfan syndrome. On the basis of modified Ghent criteria they were divided into two groups: 37 patients were diagnosed with Marfan syndrome and 35 patients were classified as marfanoid phenotype. Research included also 36 healthy controls. PWV and AI values were obtained by applanation tonometry method. Results. Mean PWV is higher in Marfan syndrome rather than marfanoid phenotype and healthy controls. The lowest mean value of PWV was found among patients with marfanoid phenotype. The highest mean AI value was presented in Marfan syndrome. The lowest mean AI was obtained in a group with marfanoid phenotype. Conclusions. Patients with Marfan syndrome are presenting higher values of PWV and AI than patients with marfanoid phenotype or healthy controls. The lowest values of PWV and AI were obtained among patients with marfanoid phenotype. Patients like these are taller than the others, however, their arterial walls most likely have correct structure, which causes beneficial hemodynamic conditions.
The Nopal (opuntia ficus indica) from remote times has contributed like food and additive product in prehispanic constructions; although it grows in all the Colombian territory is very little used and its contribution in mixtures of Colombian cement is unknown. In order to evaluate the hydration characteristics of Nopal, several Thermogravimetric Analysis (TGA) were performed to evaluate the optimal temperature of dehydration. Initially, the results show that around 175°C the weight loss is approximately 95%, this mass loss corresponds to the process of physical removal, suggesting that at least a remaining amount of 5% (w/w) has the ability to retain large amounts of water which is stored in the micro-structural deposits of Nopal. The evaluation by means Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), confirm that the whole cactus structure enables the water storage at cellular level. The results of infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and Energy Dispersive X-ray (EDX) analysis allowed the qualitative and semi-quantitative evaluation of the presence of functional groups and elemental chemical composition of Nopal respectively, mainly related with polysaccharide functional groups, which corresponds to 85% of the total composition. Other functional groups, are related with protein and mineral components. This found characteristics are relevant for the water retention in process that require the decrease of water consumption and the reinforcing of mechanical properties and durability, due to ability of Nopal mucilage to restore its hydration characteristics.
Background: Glioma stem cells (GSCs) contribute to tumor recurrence and drug resistance. This study characterizes the tumorigenesis of CD133+ cells and their sensitivity to pharmacological inhibition. Methods: GSCs from human U87 and rat C6 glioblastoma cell lines were isolated via magnetic cell sorting using CD133 as a cancer stem cell marker. Cell proliferation was determined using the WST-1 assay. An intracranial mouse model and bioluminescence imaging were used to assess the effects of drugs on tumor growth in vivo. Results: CD133+ cells expressed stem cell markers and exhibited self-renewal and enhanced tumor formation. Minocycline (Mino) was more effective in reducing the survival rate of CD133+ cells, whereas CD133+ cells were more sensitive to inhibition by the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) inhibitor. Inhibition of STAT3 decreased the expression of CD133+ stem cell markers. The combination of Mino and STAT3 inhibitor synergistically reduced the cell viability of glioma cells. Furthermore, this combination synergistically suppressed tumor growth in nude mice. Conclusion: The results suggest that concurrent targeting of different subpopulations of glioblastoma cells may be an effective therapeutic strategy for patients with malignant glioma.
2017.Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) enzyme is responsible for NO generation by catalyzing the oxidation of l-arginine to l-citrulline. Presence of this enzyme is reported from unicellular prokaryotes to multicellular higher plants and animals. Plants employ diverse enzymes to generate NO that can be grouped into animal-like NOS or alternative enzymes. Alternative enzymes that are structurally unlike animal NOS but that generate NO include NR, PM NiNOR, XOR, and polyamine oxidase. NO is also produced by nonenzymatic reactions in plants. Both in natural and agriculture conditions, plants are frequently exposed to stress. NO has been found to be involved in an array of plant physiological processes including pollen germination, seed germination, root development, stomatal movements, flowering, senescence, and programmed cell death along with abiotic and biotic stress conditions such as temperature, salinity, drought, heavy metal stress, and pathogen attack or herbivory. Some environmental factors such as temperature, cold or heat, can become stressful in just a few minutes; others may take days to weeks (soil water) or even months (mineral nutrients) to become stressful. All these conditions induce the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS). These species not only initiate several oxidatively destructive processes, but also trigger various signaling pathways that maintain appropriate cellular ROS levels. It has been found that NO generated during various stress conditions interacts with ROS in various ways and serves as an antioxidant molecule that helps plants adapt in adverse environmental condition.
2017. Ever since the work on mushroom systematics started, it remained centred around conventional morphology-based parameters. Over a period of time with the advancement of microscopic techniques, the use of internal anatomical details and other microscopic features including SEM details strengthened the taxonomic conclusions leading to the discovery of newer characters for supplementing the morphological features. Simultaneously, the importance of macrochemical and microchemical reactions in mushroom systematics has been emphasized along with the utility of chemotaxonomic and numerical taxonomic methods, although all such characters play a supplementary role in their taxonomic categorization. All such studies enabled the mushroom mycologists to reach right taxonomic conclusions. Towards the end of 1990s, there has been a rapid transformation from conventional morphology-based system to contemporary molecular phylogenetic system based on sequence analysis employing next-generation sequencing technology. Presently, the scientists are trying to understand the higher level of relationship among lamellate mushrooms and their non-lamellate relatives by sequencing gene coding for several specific non-coding ribosomal DNA regions such as ITS, nLSU, nSSU, mitochondrial non-coding gene like mtSSU and protein coding genes such as rpb1, rpb2, atp6, tef1. Of late the use of newer techniques to study mushroom taxonomy and to understand their phylogeny has started slowly picking up in India as well, which is a welcome step. Mushrooms exhibit immense variation of shape, texture, colour, smell, taste and have varied ecological preferences. In the present paper, the importance of morphological, anatomical, chemical, numerical and molecular aspects in the characterization of mushrooms on modern lines has been discussed.
Numerous studies have been conducted on the inflammation-lowering effects of CLA in in vitro and animal models. However, the effects of CLA treatment on the inflammatory markers in humans are controversial. Therefore, the objective of this study was to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis on controlled clinical trials (RCT) assessing the effects of CLA supplementation on the circulating inflammatory markers, including C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α). Subjects/methods: The literature search of RCTs was performed using Pubmed/Medline, Scopus, ScienceDirect, Web of science, Cochrane, and Google Scholar databases from inception to March 2017. Weighted mean differences were estimated and the pooled effect size was calculated by a random effects model. Results: Of the 427 identified studies, eleven RCTs, including 420 subjects were included in the statistical analysis. Findings suggested that CLA supplementation increased blood levels of CRP by 0.89 mg/l (95% CI: 0.11, 1.68; P = 0.025) and TNF-α levels by 0.39 pg/ml (95% CI: 0.23, 0.55; P < 0.0001). However, blood IL-6 levels were marginally decreased by 0.32 pg/ml (95% CI: −0.71, 0.07; P = 0.11) following CLA supplementation. There was a significant heterogeneity for the impact of CLA on CRP and IL-6, but not TNF-α. Conclusions: This meta-analysis showed that CLA supplementation may increase inflammatory markers (CRP and TNF-α). There are concerns about using CLA supplementation as an anti-obesity agent among the obese population for at least a short duration.
Objective: Rare co-existance of disease or pathology Background: Fitz-Hugh-Curtis (FHC) syndrome is a perihepatitis linked to inflammatory pelvic disease. It can be caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae or Chlamydia trachomatis infections. FHC syndrome usually presents with pain in the right hypochondrium and fever, associated with symptoms and signs of pelvic infection in women. Case Report: We present the case of a 22-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematous (SLE) who presented with polyarthritis, cutaneous lesions, and abdominal pain. The diagnosis of FHC syndrome was based on the findings of abdominal computerized tomography (CT) and the isolation of Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) in blood cultures. The association of arthritis and cutaneous lesions was diagnosed as a syndrome of arthritis-dermatitis, also caused by systemic NG infection. The patient had a favorable outcome with antibiotic treatment. Conclusions: FHC syndrome should be considered in sexually active young patients, mainly women, with pelvic infection and perihepatitis. It may be caused by disseminated gonococcal infection. An important risk factor is the serum complement deficit, which may predispose to severe forms. Low serum complement level is a frequent manifestation of active SLE. CT images showing the typical findings of perihepatitis allow making the correct diagnosis.
Introduction. High sensitivity troponin T (TnT-hs) is biomarker of myocardial damage and ischemia. Despite its elevation troponin still preserve its usefulness as a marker of the cardiovascular risk and mortality in chronic kidney disease. Variations of hydration status between and during hemodialysis exert significant hemodynamic effects, which may negatively affect cardiovascular system and blood pressure and lead to myocardial damage. The aim of the study was to access the effect of hydration status and variability of blood pressure and heart rate induced by hemodialysis on intradialytic changes of TnT-hs, in chronic hemodialysis patients. Material and methods. In 50 chronic hemodialysis patients (35M, 15F, mean age 64 ± 12 years) blood pressure and heart rate were monitored noninvasively during HD session. Serum concentration of TnT-hs and hydration status were assessed before and after hemodialysis. Results. TnT-hs concentration was above normal range in 98% patients before, and in all after hemodialysis. Median TnT-hs level was 82 ng/L before and 84 ng/L after hemodialysis, which comprised 586% and 600% of the upper limit of normal range. There was a small 2.4%, intradialytic increase of TnT-hs (p = 0.004). TnT-hs levels correlated positively with mean interdialytic weigh gain, before HD (r = 0.43, p = 0.02) and after HD (r = 0.5, p = 0.003). There was also a positive correlation between TnT-hs concentration and mean heart rate (r = 0.37, p = 0.008) and with mean systolic blood pressure during HD, before HD (r = 0.3, p = 0.026) and after HD (r = 0.3, p = 0.031). Conclusions. Hemodialysis can be a risk factor of myocardial injury, especially in overhydrated patients.
Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) enzyme was extracted from Prunus spinosa L. subsp. dasyphylla plum, partially purified by acetone precipitation, and its biochemical properties were investigated. Different substrates (p-coumaric acid, L-tyrosine, p-hydroxyphenyl propionic acid (PHPPA), catechol, 4-methylcatechol (4-MTC), hydrocaffeic acid, gallic acid, quercetin, catechin, and epicatechin) were analysed to determine their affinities with Prunus spinosa PPO (PsPPO). The substrate specificity was in the following order: 4-MTC > catechol > hydrocaffeic acid > catechin > epicatechin. 4-MTC was the most suitable substrate (Km = 0.97 mM and Vmax = 4753 U/mg protein). The optimal pH values were 7.0 for 4-MTC and catechol, 5.0 for catechin and epicatechin, and 4.0–6.0 for hydrocaffeic acid. Optimal temperatures were 40°C for 4-MTC, 30°C for catechol, and 60°C for catechin, epicatechin, and hydrocaffeic acid. In the inhibition tests, the most potent inhibitor was found to be sodium metabisulphite (IC50 = 0.01 mM), followed by ascorbic acid, thiourea, benzoic acid, L-cysteine, and sodium azide. Approximately 80 and 75% of the diphenolase activity was conserved at pH 5.0 and 7.0, respectively, at 4°C after 7 d incubation. Moreover, native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (Native-PAGE) of the enriched extract revealed the presence of at least six bands with PPO activity, suggesting the existence of different PPO isoforms. However, the oxidation of diphenol related to browning significantly, so the data obtained in this research provided a basis for the prevention of enzymatic browning of Prunus spinosa during processing. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) revealed the plum extract contained protocatechuic acid, p-OH benzoic acid, vanillic acid, syringic acid, epicatechin, p-coumaric acid, and luteolin.
In this study, we developed a multifunctional chromatographic medium by using iminodisuccinic acid (IDS) as ligand, γ-glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane (γ-GLDP) as spacer arm and silica as matrix. The medium was characterized by fourier transform infrared spectrometry (FT-IR). Binding capacity of IDS on chromatographic medium was determined by potentiometric titration. The effect of mass ratios (w/w) between silica and IDS on the medium synthesis was discussed. The optimal ratio of matrix, spacer arm and ligand was 1.5 g: 2.0 mL: 4.6 g. Based on different chromatographic modes, protein mixtures of bovine serum albumin, ribonuclease and lysozyme were successfully separated with IDS-Silica column and IDS-Cu(II)-Silica column, respectively. To examine metal chelating behavior of IDS-Silica stationary phase, optimal geometries and related parameters of complexes formed by IDS with Fe3+, Cu2+, Ni2+, Zn2+, Co2+ and Ca2+ were achieved by quantum computing. The stabilities of the complexes were predicted according to the results of theoretical calculation. Sorption capacities of IDS-Silica stationary phase for metal ions were determined by using offline frontal chromatography (FC) combined with inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES). A good agreement was found between simulating results and experimental observations. The order of chelating strength of IDS-Silica medium for metal ions was Fe3+ > Cu2+ > Ni2+ > Zn2+ > Co2+ > Ca2+. Compared with IDA-Silica, Asp-Silica and Glu-Silica stationary phases, IDS-Silica displayed a stronger chelating property for metal ion.
The present study used meta-analysis to investigate whether Δ15Nanimal-diet can be used as a predictor of NUE across a range of dietary conditions, particularly at the level of between-animal variation. An additional objective was to identify variables related to N partitioning explaining the link between NUE and Δ15Nanimal-diet. Individual values from eight publications reporting both NUE and Δ15Nanimal-diet for domestic ruminants were used to create a database comprising 11 experimental studies, 41 treatments and individual animal values for NUE (n=226) and Δ15Nanimal-diet (n=291). Data were analyzed by mixed-effect regression analysis taking into account experimental factors as random effects on both the intercept and slope of the model. Diets were characterized according to the INRA feeding system in terms of N utilization at the rumen, digestive and metabolic levels. These variables were used in a partial least squares regression analysis to predict separately NUE and Δ15Nanimal-diet variation, with the objective of identifying common variables linking NUE and Δ15Nanimal-diet. For individuals reared under similar conditions (within-study) and at the same time (within-period), the variance of NUE and Δ15Nanimal-diet not explained by dietary treatments (i.e. between-animal variation plus experimental error) was 35% and 55%, respectively. Mixed-effect regression analysis conducted with treatment means showed that Δ15Nanimal-diet was significantly and negatively correlated to NUE variation across diets (NUE=0.415 −0.055×Δ15Nanimal-diet). When using individual values and taking into account the random effects of study, period and diet, the relationship was also significant (NUE=0.358 −0.035×Δ15Nanimal-diet). However, there may be a biased prediction for animals close to zero, or in negative, N balance. When using a novel statistical approach, attempting to regress between-animal variation in NUE on between-animal variation in Δ15Nanimal-diet (without the influence of experimental factors), the negative relationship was still significant, highlighting the ability of Δ15Nanimal-diet to capture individual variability. Among the studied variables related to N utilization, those concerning N efficiency use at the metabolic level contributed most to predict both Δ15Nanimal-diet and NUE variation, with rumen fermentation and digestion contributing to a lesser extent. This study confirmed that on average Δ15Nanimal-diet can predict NUE variation across diets and across individuals reared under similar conditions.
Background: The overall prevalence of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in China is declining. The purpose of this study was to use a community-based epidemiological study to update the infection status of hepatitis B virus (HBV) in mountainous regions of China, and to evaluate the impact of the Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI) on HBV transmission. Methods: In total, 10,383 participants were selected by multi-stage stratified random cluster sampling in two mountainous regions, Xianju and Anji, in Zhejiang province, China. Results: The positive rates of hepatitis B virus surface antigen (HBsAg), anti-HBV core antigen (anti-HBc), and anti-HBV surface antigen (anti-HBs) were 9.5%, 33.9%, and 51.0%, respectively. Positive HBV markers were more frequently detected in males than in females (P < 0.01). The alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels were elevated (>38 IU/L) in 15.3% of the HBsAg-positive and 6.3% of the HBsAg-negative subjects. The α-fetoprotein (AFP) level was elevated in 0.8% of the HBsAg-positive participants who were older than 30 years old. Conclusions: The epidemiology of HBV infection is location dependent. The prevalence of HBV infection in the mountainous regions is higher than the national levels. Moreover, HBV infection in women of childbearing age is up to 10%, which represents a main factor for continuous HBV transmission.
Background: Patient-specific instruments have recently gained attention for ensuring the accuracy of osteotomy and correct alignment in total knee arthroplasty (TKA). We aimed to report our experience with TKA performed by using CT-based 3D model of cutting guides in our clinic. Material/Methods: A total of 36 patients (mean age, 67.58±8.46 years; 24 females, 12 males) who underwent TKA with 3D patient-specific cutting guides in our clinic were included in the study. Differences between preoperatively planned bone resections and actual bone resections were calculated. Femoral and tibial component angles were measured on radiographs of the knee. The change in knee pain was evaluated by patients on a 10-point visual analog scale (VAS). Patients were followed up for 6 months postoperatively. Results: The actual bone resection was 0.5-1.5 mm higher than the planned resection for all sides, being statistically significant for posterior lateral and distal medial sides (1.1±1.3 mm and 1.5±0.9 mm, respectively; p<0.05). On postoperative radiographs, coronal tibial component angle was 88.8°±0.9° and coronal femoral component angle was 95.2°±1.6°, showing good postoperative alignment. The VAS pain score of patients significantly decreased from preoperative 3.9±0.8 to 1.1±0.9 at 6 months after the operation. One patient developed superficial tissue infection on postoperative follow-up, which was effectively treated. No other pathology was detected in the postoperative period. Conclusions: Patient-specific cutting guides can provide intraoperative guidance for better placement of the implant in TKA and increase the accuracy of osteotomy and postoperative alignment.
Background: Gamma-aminobutyric acid-B receptor autoantibodies are becoming an increasingly recognized contributor to the spectrum of autoimmune limbic encephalitis. They are classically associated with seizures and behavioral disturbance, and may coexist with other autoantibodies. Many are paraneoplastic, most commonly associated with small cell lung cancer. Until now there have been no reports of cardiac dysrhythmias in these patients. Case presentation: A 65-year-old Caucasian man presented with multiple seizures, dysarthria and behavioral disturbance of unclear etiology, with associated asystolic cardiac arrest. Antibody testing showed anti-Gamma-aminobutyric acid-B receptor and anti-Hu antibodies in serum and Gamma-aminobutyric acid-B receptor autoantibodies in cerebrospinal fluid. The diagnosis of small cell lung cancer was subsequently made after lung biopsy, and the patient showed improvement with chemotherapy and intravenous immunoglobulin. Conclusions: We present the case of a patient with Gamma-aminobutyric acid-B receptor limbic encephalitis associated with asystolic cardiac arrest, an association not previously described. This case illustrates how difficult it is to make the diagnosis on clinical grounds alone. We therefore propose more routine antibody testing in patients with similar symptomatology who remain undifferentiated after initial workup. We also recommend that in the acute setting, patients with Gamma-aminobutyric acid-B receptor encephalitis should receive cardiac monitoring, as further research is required to clarify its possible link with cardiac dysrhythmias.
2017. Tannin acyl hydrolase (E.C.3.1.1.20) universally known as tannase is an inducible enzyme that predominantly acts on tannins. Tannins have been documented as high molecular weight polyphenolic compounds possessing molecular weight in the range (500-3000 kDa). Tannins are the second most abundant polyphenolic compounds existing in nature after lignin. Tannins are water-soluble secondary metabolites existing in abundance in plants. Apparently, tannins exist in plants as the fourth most bountiful constituents behind cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin. Tannins possess acrid properties and have the inherent capability of binding with proteins, cellulose, gelatin, and pectin thereby forming insoluble complexes. Tannases derived from microbial sources have enormous applications in various industries. This tremendous biocatalytic potential of tannase is attributed to their higher stability and feasibility. Tannases have a vast range of applications in various industrial bioprocesses ranging from food, feed to chemical as well as pharma sector. Furthermore, tannery effluentsare loaded with surplus amount of tannins, predominantly polyphenols, which are life-threatening pollutants and pose severe environmental and health hazards. As a matter of fact, tannases can be substantially utilized for degrading the tannins that predominantly exist in the tannery effluents, thus offering a much cheaper treatment for the eviction of these compounds. The enzyme also finds significant utilization in cosmetic industries to so as to lessen the extensive turbidity of plant extracts. Tannase can also be predominantly used for high-grade leather tannins preparation in the leather industry. The present chapter is an attempt to emphasize on microbial sources, substrates for maximal tannase production, factors governing tannase production, mechanism of action, purification, immobilization, inhibitors as well as widespread applications of tannases. The advancements in molecular tools and techniques have enabled a better understanding of tannase structure, underlying mechanism of its action as well as the more precise understanding of various process parameters governing tannase production. Over the years, tannases have witnessed a significant rise in their utilization in commercial sector; thus, there is always an opportunity for researchers to search out novel tannases with better and improved characteristics.
It was also recently introduced in the United Kingdom and Switzerland. Here we present the first detection of V. velutina in the westernmost Mediterranean islands (Majorca, Balearic archipelago). In October 2015, a specimen of hornet, which was later identified as V. velutina, was sent to the laboratory of Zoology at the University of the Balearic Islands by a beekeeper from the locality of Sóller (northwest of Majorca). After the identification, and in coordination with the local authorities, an intensive survey was implemented in the area of first detection using sticky traps baited with protein and nest detection by directly observing the flight route of adult hornets from two or three feeding points. The first nest was detected on 30th October 2015 and was entirely removed. The next year, nine other nests were located from August to November 2016 in the same area and again, all of them were removed entirely. It is the first report on an island of destroying nests as a means of controlling the spread, a scenario very different to mainland Europe. All nests were detected in evergreen tree species (pines, holm oaks, and common cypress) in the “Serra de Tramuntana”, a mountain range located in the north-west of the island of Majorca (3667 km2), which is situated 176 km off the mainland. Considering the presumably early stage of the invasion of V. velutina in Majorca, the size of the island, and the confinement of the detection area, we consider that this species could be eradicated if resources and a specific program for eradication in Majorca are implemented in coordination with all involved partners.
Background: Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are promising candidates for the treatment of various inflammatory disorders due to their profound immunomodulatory properties. However, the immunosuppressive capacity of MSCs needs activation by an inflammatory microenvironment, which may negatively impact the therapeutic effect because of increased immunogenicity. Here we explore the role of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling on the immunosuppressive capacity of MSCs, and its impact on immunogenicity in the inflammatory microenvironment. Methods: Human bone marrow MSCs were cocultured with activated human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, CD4+ T cells, and mouse splenocytes to evaluate the immunosuppressive function. Immunosuppressive factors were assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Western blot, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) was detected by flow cytometry. Short hairpin (sh)RNA was used to downregulate tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC)2, TSC1, and cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 in MSCs. Results: Inhibition of mTOR signaling using rapamycin enhanced the immunosuppressive functions of MSCs, while prolonged exposure to rapamycin did not. The enhancement of the immunosuppressive function was independent of the inflammatory microenvironment, and occurred mainly through the upregulation of COX-2 and prostaglandin-E2 (PGE2) expression. Furthermore, mTOR inhibition did not impact the immunogenicity of MSCs. However, the upregulated expression of MHC class II molecules by interferon (IFN)-γ was attenuated by mTOR inhibition, whereas TSC2 knockdown had the opposite effect. Conclusions: These results reveal that the mTOR signaling pathway regulates MSC immunobiology, and short-term exposure to rapamycin could be a novel approach to improve the MSC-based therapeutic effect.
Background: Placenta percreta is a rare obstetric condition associated with the risk of massive intraoperative hemorrhage. Recently, conservative management of placenta percreta has been performed to reduce maternal morbidity. However, various complications have been reported during such management. Only a few cases of asymptomatic disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) or fever without infection have been reported. Here, we discuss such a case and review the related literature to understand this rare condition better. For this, we performed an electronic literature review. Case presentation: We present the clinical course, results of blood tests, and serial magnetic resonance images of a 35-year-old female (gravida 5, para 2) with placenta percreta complicated by placenta previa that was managed conservatively. The patient successfully delivered a healthy baby by a cesarean delivery via a transverse uterine fundal incision at 36weeks of gestation. We did not observe intraoperative complications during cesarean delivery, and the postoperative course remained uncomplicated until 47days after the delivery. However, asymptomatic DIC developed after 47days, and her serum fibrinogen level declined to 42mg/dL, which was successfully treated with anticoagulant therapy by a therapeutic dose of intravenous heparin for 22days (postoperative days 48-69). Although DIC resolved, subsequent fever persisted for approximately 1month (postoperative days 67-103). Infection was ruled out, and conservative management was successfully continued. Literature review revealed that successful conservative management of a patient with asymptomatic DIC and subsequent fever without infection is extremely rare. Conclusions: Some patients with DIC and fever can continue conservative management of placenta percreta, although careful examination and monitoring are needed.
Background: The use of doxorubicin (DOX) an anthracycline antineoplastic agent is withdrawn due to its cardio-toxic side effects. Oxidative stress has been recognized as the primary cause of DOX induced cardiotoxicity. We have investigated whether polyphenol rich ethyl acetate extract of Acacia hydaspica (AHE) can attenuate doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity via inhibition of oxidative stress. Methods: AHE was administered orally to rats once daily for 6 weeks at doses of 200 and 400 mg/kg b.w. DOX (3 mg/kg b.w. i.p., single dose/week) was administered for 6 weeks (chronic model). The parameters studied to evaluate cardioprotective potential were the serum cardiac function biomarkers (CK, CKMB, AST and LDH), hematological parameters, cardiac tissue antioxidant enzymatic status and oxidative stress markers, and histopathological analysis to validate biochemical findings. Results: Chronic 6 week treatment of DOX significantly deteriorated cardiac function biomarkers and decreased the activities of antioxidant enzymes, whereas significant increase in oxidative stress biomarkers was noticed in comparison to control group. AHE dose dependently protected DOX-induced leakage of cardiac enzymes in serum and ameliorated DOX-induced oxidative stress; as evidenced by decreasing lipid peroxidation, H2O2 and NO content with increase in phase I and phase II antioxidant enzymes. Doxorubicin treatment produced severe morphological lesions, leucopenia, decrease in red blood cell counts and hemoglobin concentrations. AHE co-treatment protected the heart and blood elements from the toxic effects of doxorubicin as indicated by the recovery of hematological parameters to normal values and prevention of myocardial injuries in a dose dependent way. The protective potency of AHE (400 mg/kg b.w) was equivalent to silymarin. Conclusion: Results revealed that AHE showed protective effects against DOX induce cardiotoxicity. The protective effect might attribute to its polyphenolic constituents and antioxidant properties. AHE might be helpful in combination therapies as safer and efficient.
Deciphering the structural determinants of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) is essential to gain a deep understanding of many important biological functions in the living cells. Computational approaches for the structural modeling of PPIs, such as protein-protein docking, are quite needed to complement existing experimental techniques. The reliability of a protein-protein docking method is dependent on the ability of the scoring function to accurately distinguish the near-native binding structures from a huge number of decoys. In this study, we developed HawkRank, a novel scoring function designed for the sampling stage of protein-protein docking by summing the contributions from several energy terms, including van der Waals potentials, electrostatic potentials and desolvation potentials. First, based on the solvation free energies predicted by the Generalized Born model for ~ 800 proteins, a SASA (solvent accessible surface area)-based solvation model was developed, which can give the aqueous solvation free energies for proteins by summing the contributions of 21 atom types. Then, the van der Waals potentials and electrostatic potentials based on the Amber ff14SB force field were computed. Finally, the HawkRank scoring function was derived by determining the most optimal weights for five energy terms based on the training set. Here, MSR (modified success rate), a novel protein-protein scoring quality index, was used to assess the performance of HawkRank and three other popular protein-protein scoring functions, including ZRANK, FireDock and dDFIRE. The results show that HawkRank outperformed the other three scoring functions according to the total number of hits and MSR.
The BCR-ABL specific tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) changed the outcome of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), turning a life-threatening disease into a chronic illness. However, TKI are not yet curative, because most patients retain leukemic stem cells (LSC) and their progenitors in bone marrow and relapse following treatment cessation. At diagnosis, deregulation of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) pathway is involved in LSC and progenitor expansion. Here, we report that BMP pathway alterations persist in TKI-resistant patients. In comparison with patients in complete cytogenetic remission, TKI-resistant LSC and progenitors display high levels of BMPR1b expression and alterations of its cellular localization. In vitro treatment of immature chronic phase CML cells with TKI alone, or in combination with interferon-a, results in the preferential survival of BMPR1b1 cells.Wedemonstrated persistent and increasingBMP4production by patients' mesenchymal cells with resistance. Patient follow-up revealed an increase of BMPR1b expression and in BMP4 expression in LSC from TKI-resistant patients in comparison with diagnosis, while remaining unchanged in sensitive patients. Both leukemic and nonleukemic cells exhibit higher BMP4 levels in the bone marrow of TKIresistant patients. Exposure to BMP2/BMP4 does not alter BCR-ABL transcript expression but is accompanied by the overexpression of TWIST-1, a transcription factor highly expressed in resistant LSC. By modulating BMP4 or BMPR1b expression, we show that these elements are involved in TKI resistance. In summary, we reveal that persistence of BMP alterations and existence of an autocrine loop promote CML-primitive cells' TKI resistance.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Background: Identifying protein complexes plays an important role for understanding cellular organization and functional mechanisms. As plenty of evidences have indicated that dense sub-networks in dynamic protein-protein interaction network (DPIN) usually correspond to protein complexes, identifying protein complexes is formulated as density-based clustering. Methods: In this paper, a new approach named iOPTICS-GSO is developed, which is the improved Ordering Points to Identify the Clustering Structure (OPTICS) algorithm with Glowworm swarm optimization algorithm (GSO) to optimize the parameters in OPTICS when finding dense sub-networks. In our iOPTICS-GSO, the concept of core node is redefined and the Euclidean distance in OPTICS is replaced with the improved similarity between the nodes in the PPI network according to their interaction strength, and dense sub-networks are considered as protein complexes. Results: The experiment results have shown that our iOPTICS-GSO outperforms of algorithms such as DBSCAN, CFinder, MCODE, CMC, COACH, ClusterOne MCL and OPTICS-PSO in terms of f-measure and p-value on four DPINs, which are from the DIP, Krogan, MIPS and Gavin datasets. In addition, our predicted protein complexes have a small p-value and thus are highly likely to be true protein complexes. Conclusion: The proposed iOPTICS-GSO gains optimal clustering results by adopting GSO algorithm to optimize the parameters in OPTICS, and the result on four datasets shows superior performance. What's more, the results provided clues for biologists to verify and find new protein complexes.
This review article discusses some insights about generating novel mechanistic inhibitors of the DNA damage response and repair (DDR) pathways by focusing on protein-protein interactions (PPIs) of the key DDR components. General requirements for PPI strategies, such as selecting the target PPI site on the basis of its functionality, are discussed first. Next, on the basis of functional rationale and biochemical feasibility to identify a PPI inhibitor, 26 PPIs in DDR pathways (BER, MMR, NER, NHEJ, HR, TLS, and ICL repair) are specifically discussed for inhibitor discovery to benefit cancer therapies using a DNA-damaging agent.
Adenosine deaminases acting on RNA (ADARs) are enzymes that catalyze the conversion of adenosine (A) to inosine (I) in double-stranded RNAs. Inosine exhibits similar properties as guanosine. As a result, A-to-I editing has a great impact on edited RNAs, not only affecting the base pairing properties, but also altering codons after translation. A-to-I editing are known to mediate and diversify transcripts. However, the overall biological effect of ADARs are still largely unknown. Aberrant ADAR activity and editing dysregulation are present in a variety of cancers, including hepatocellular carcinoma, chronic myelogenous leukemia, glioblastoma and melanoma. ADAR-mediated A-to-I editing can influence uncontrolled nucleotide changes, resulting in susceptibility of cells to developmental defects and potential carcinogenicity. A deeper understanding of the biological function of ADARs may provide mechanistic insights in the development of new cancer therapy. Here, we discuss recent advances in research on ADAR in detail including the structure and function of ADARs, the biochemistry of ADAR-mediated RNA editing, and the relevance of ADAR proteins in cancer.
Endocytosis is key to fibrinogen (Fg) uptake, trafficking of integrins (αIIbβ3, αvβ3), and purinergic receptors (P2Y1, P2Y12), and thus normal platelet function. However, the molecular machinery required and possible trafficking routes are still ill-defined. To further identify elements of the platelet endocytic machinery, we examined the role of a vesicle-residing, solubleN-ethylmaleimide factor attachment protein receptor (v-SNARE) called cellubrevin/vesicle-associated membrane protein-3 (VAMP-3) in platelet function. Although not required for normal platelet exocytosis or hemostasis,VAMP-3-/- mice hadlessplatelet-associatedFg, indicatingadefect inFguptake/storage.Othergranulemarkers were unaffected. Direct experiments, both in vitro and in vivo, showed that loss of VAMP-3 led to a robust defect in uptake/storage of Fg in platelets and cultured megakaryocytes. Uptake of the fluid-phase marker, dextran, was only modestly affected. Time-dependent uptake and endocytic trafficking of Fg and dextran were followed using 3-dimensional-structured illumination microscopy. Dextran uptake was rapid compared with Fg, but both cargoes progressed through Rab4+, Rab11+, and von Willebrand factor (VWF)+ compartments in wild-type platelets in a time-dependent manner. In VAMP-3-/- platelets, the 2 cargoes showed limited colocalizationwithRab4, Rab11, orVWF.Loss ofVAMP-3 also affectedsome acute platelet functions, causing enhanced spreadingon Fg and fibronectin and faster clot retraction comparedwithwild-type. In addition, the rateof Janus kinase 2phosphorylation, initiatedthrough the thrombopoietin receptor (TPOR/Mpl) activation, was affected in VAMP-3-/- platelets. Collectively, our studies show that platelets are capable of a range of endocytosis steps, with VAMP-3 being pivotal in these processes.
Spermatogenesis is threatened by DNA alkylating agents, one major category of DNA damaging agents. Currently, little is known about the alterations in transcriptome profiling of the mouse spermatogenic cells in response to DNA alkylation at distinct stages of spermatogenesis. In this study, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed in pachytene spermatocytes (PS) and round spermatids (RS) at 0 or 30 min following Methyl Methanesulfonate (MMS) treatment and with untreated controls. A large number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by comparison of the three groups in PS and RS, respectively. Functional analyses of all DEGs highlighted the protein ubiquitination pathway and DNA damage response (DDR) network being the two main biological processes in common in the two cell types. Further analyses of the DEGs with 2-fold or more changes between 30 min repair and control group indicated that several cytokine signaling pathways were the most strongly affected in PS and DDR related pathways in RS, respectively. Gene ontology (GO) analyses directly showed differential biological process (BP) affected between PS and RS, with “regulation of transcription” being most overrepresented in PS and “cellular response to stress” in RS, respectively. Moreover, 374 DDR-related genes in PS and 158 in RS among all DEGs were filtered and clustered, which showed dynamic expression patterns in PS and RS. Our analyses provide a transcriptional landscape for male germ cells in response to MMS during spermatogenesis.
PRDM14 (PRDI-BF1 and RIZ domain-containing 14), a transcription factor, plays important roles in primordial germ cell specification and embryonic stem cell pluripotency, and supports the maintenance of self-renewal by promoting the expression of stem cell markers while also repressing the expression of differentiation factors. As a proto-oncogene, the ectopic expression of PRDM14 can enhance breast cell growth and reduce breast cell sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugs. Conversely, knockdown of PRDM14 expression induces apoptosis in breast cancer cells and restores their sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugs. Here, we sought to identify the role of PRDM14 in 293T cells. PRDM14-infected 293T cells exhibited an abnormal morphology, and we found that ectopic expression of PRDM14 inhibits colony formation, cell proliferation and metastasis. In addition, our data indicated that PRDM14 influences the G1/S phase transition of 293T cells by inducing the expression of cell cycle regulators. In conclusion, these results showed that PRDM14 inhibits 293T cell proliferation by influencing the G1/S phase transition and impacts cell migration by regulating the level of MMP/TIMP expression, thus mediating extracellular matrix degradation.
However, the mechanism of action for SENP1 in astrocytoma is not yet clear. Astrocytoma is the most frequent one among various neurogliomas, of which a subtype known as glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most malignant brain glioma and seriously influences the life quality of the patients. In this study, the expression of SENP1 was detected in 28 cases of various grades of astrocytoma and 6 cases of normal human tissues. The results showed that the expression of SENP1 was positively correlated with the malignant grades. Besides, the NF-κB and Akt signaling pathways in GBM tissues were activated. Cytological experiments indicated that knock-down of endogenous SENP1 promoted cell apoptosis. Further research confirmed that downexpression of SENP1 could inhibit the phosphorylation of IκBα and Akt, and also the expression of its downstream regulation factors Bcl-xL and cyclinD1. These results delineate a key role for SENP1 in astrocytoma development, suggesting it may be a potential new therapeutic target inastrocytoma.
Objective: To construct a recombinant Escherichia coli (E.coli) with surface-displayed lead specific binding protein PbrR and to further study intestinal colonization by the recombinant bacteria in mice and gastrointestinal tolerance of the bacterial surface-displayed PbrR. Methods: Chimeric protein Lpp-OmpA coding sequence was chemically synthesized and inserted into the expression vector pET-21a to construct the outer membrane display vector pLOA. PbrR coding sequence was also obtained by chemically synthesis and inserted into pLOA to generate the outer membrane display plasmid pLOA-pbrr. E. coli BL21(DE3)pLysS was transformed with pLOA-pbrr and induced by IPTG. The expressed recombinant proteins were analyzed by 15% SDS-PAGE and Western blot assay. Lead adsorption capacity of the cell surface-displayed PbrR in the simulated intestinal juice and tolerance of the recombinant E. coli to simulated gastric juice were analyzed, respectively. KM mice were orally given the induced recombinant bacteria by gastric lavage for 7 consecutive days and then were continually fed until day 30. The contents of recombinant bacteria in stool samples were detected by dilution plate method on day 7, 15 and 30. The recombinant protein with His tag was detected by immunoblotting on day 7 and 15. Results: Based on Lpp-OmpA, the PbrR outer membrane display vector was successfully constructed. The recombinant fusion protein Lpp-OmpA-PbrR-His tag was highly expressed in E. coli. The recombinant E. colistrains displaying PbrR on their outer membrane accumulated a significant level of Pb2+ in simulated intestinal juice. Moreover, those strains showed a tolerance to gastric acid in vitro and could colonize in the intestinal tracts of mice via oral infection. The surface-displayed recombinant fusion protein showed a better tolerance to the environment of digestive tract. Conclusion: The recombinant E. coli strain displaying PbrR on its surface showed a stronger capability of lead accumulation from simulated intestinal environment and could colonize in the intestinal tracts of mice. The surface-displayed recombinant PbrR also showed a good tolerance to digestive juice. This study paved the way for further researches on the selective elimination of lead by biosorption based on animal models.
Sweet and taste modifying proteins are natural alternatives to synthetic sweeteners and flavor enhancers, and have been used for centuries in different countries. Use of these proteins is limited due to less stability and availability. However, recent advances in biotechnology have enhanced their availability. These include production of sweet and taste modifying proteins in transgenic organisms, and protein engineering to improve their stability. Their increased availability in the food, beverage or medicinal industries as sweeteners and flavor enhancers will reduce the dependence on artificial alternatives. Production of transgenic plants using sweet and taste modifying genes, is an interesting alternative to the extraction of these products from natural source. In this review paper, we briefly describe various sweet and taste modifying proteins (such as thaumatin, monellin, brazzein, curculin and miraculin), their properties, and their application for plant development using biotechnological approaches.
Ensuring continuous intracellular supply of thiamine is essential to maintain metabolism. Cellular homeostasis requires the function of the membrane bound thiamine transporters THTR1 and THTR2. In the absence of increased dietary intake of thiamine, varying intracellular levels to meet metabolic demands during pathophysiological stressors, such as hypoxia, requires adaptive regulatory mechanisms to increase thiamine transport capacity. Previous work has established the up-regulation of SLC19A3 (THTR2) gene expression and activity during hypoxic stress through the activity of the hypoxia inducible transcription factor 1 alpha (HIF-1α). However, it is unknown whether HIF-1α acts directly or indirectly to trans-activate expression of SLC19A3. This work utilized the breast cancer cell line BT-474 treated with 1% O2 or a hypoxia chemical mimetic deferoxamine to determine the minimal promoter region of SLC19A3 responsible for hypoxia responsiveness. In silico sequence analysis determined two contiguous hypoxia responsive elements in close proximity to the transcriptional start site of the SLC19A3 gene. Using a HIF-1α transcriptional factor ELISA assay, HIF-1α was capable of binding to a dsDNA construct of the SLC19A3 minimal promoter. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay established that SP1 was bound to the SLC19A3 minimal promoter region under normoxic conditions. However, HIF-1α binding to the minimal promoter region occurred during hypoxic treatments, while no SP1 binding was observed under these conditions. This work demonstrates the direct binding and activation of SLC19A3 expression by HIF-1α during hypoxic stress, suggesting an important adaptive regulatory role for HIF-1α in maintaining thiamine homeostasis.
The Xenopus oocyte as a heterologous expression system for proteins, was first described by Gurdon et al.1 and has been widely used since its discovery (References 2 - 3, and references therein). A characteristic that makes the oocyte attractive for foreign channel expression is the poor abundance of endogenous ion channels4. This expression system has proven useful for the characterization of many proteins, among them ligand-gated ion channels. The expression of GABAA receptors in Xenopus oocytes and their functional characterization is described here, including the isolation of oocytes, microinjections with cRNA, the removal of follicular cell layers, and fast solution changes in electrophysiological experiments. The procedures were optimized in this laboratory5,6 and deviate from the ones routinely used7-9. Traditionally, denuded oocytes are prepared with a prolonged collagenase treatment of ovary lobes at RT, and these denuded oocytes are microinjected with mRNA. Using the optimized methods, diverse membrane proteins have been expressed and studied with this system, such as recombinant GABAA receptors10-12, human recombinant chloride channels13, Trypanosome potassium channels14, and a myo-inositol transporter15, 16. The methods detailed here may be applied to the expression of any protein of choice in Xenopus oocytes, and the rapid solution change can be used to study other ligand-gated ion channels.
A supervised similarity measure for Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene expressions is developed which can capture the gene similarity when multiple types of experimental conditions like cell cycle, heat shock are available for all the genes. The measure is called Weighted Pearson correlation (WPC), where the weights are systematically determined for each type of experiment by maximizing the positive predictive value for gene pairs having Pearson correlation greater than 0.80. The positive predictive value is computed by using the annotation information available from yeast GO-Slim process annotations in Saccharomyces Genome Database (SGD). Genes are then clustered by k-medoid algorithm using the newly computed WPC, and functions of 135 unclassified genes are predicted with a p-value cutoff 10 −5 using Munich Information for Protein Sequences (MIPS) annotations. Out of these genes, functional categories of 55 gene are predicted with p-value cutoff greater than 10 −10 and reported in this investigation. The superiority of WPC as compared to some existing similarity measures like Pearson correlation and Euclidean distance is demonstrated using positive predictive (PPV) values of gene pairs for different Saccharomyces cerevisiae data sets. The related code is available at http://www.sampa.droppages.com/WPC.html.
Developing new therapeutic strategies for Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a current challenge. Approved drugs merely act symptomatically and delay the progression of the disease for a relatively short period of time. Here, we investigated the effectiveness of MH84 in a cellular HEK293APPwt model of AD, characterized by elevated beta amyloid protein levels (Aβ1-42) and mitochondrial dysfunction. MH84 is a derivate of pirinixic acid belonging to a novel class of γ-Secretase modulators, which combines γ-Secretase modulation with activation of peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor gamma (PPARγ). The mitochondria modifying Dimebon, the γ-Secretase blocker DAPT, and the PPARγ agonist pioglitazone were used as controls. MH84 protects against nitrosative stress, increased mitochondrial respiration, citrate synthase (CS) activity and protein levels of PGC1α indicating enhanced mitochondrial content at nano-molar concentrations. Concurrently, MH84 decreased protein levels of APP, Aβ1-42, and C-terminal fragments at micro-molar concentrations. Both Dimebon and DAPT reduced cellular Aβ1-42 levels. Dimebon improved mitochondrial functions and DAPT decreased mitochondrial membrane potential. Pioglitazone had no effects on APP processing and mitochondrial function. Our data emphasizes MH84 as possible novel therapeutic agent with mitochondria-based mode of action.
Cardiovascular and metabolic disturbances individually and interdependently lead to chronic pathological conditions observed in cardio-metabolic diseases (CMDs). In Europe, the morbidity and mortality caused by cardiovascular disease are the highest among all diseases. Therefore, it seems important to search for new and alternative therapies for obesity, which is the main cause of type 2 diabetes (T2D) and cardiovascular disease (CD). Great attention has been paid to the role of brown adipose tissue in fat burning and the possibility of transformation of the white adipose tissue to cells with brown adipose tissue function as a potential form of treatment of obesity. The best-characterized marker of brown adipose tissue is uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1), which has the ability to dissipate energy as heat in the process called non-shivering thermogenesis. Numerous studies have shown that altered expression of this protein can lead to disturbances in fat metabolism. One possible reason for the aberrant expression of UCP1 may be inherited variations in the gene encoding that protein. Therefore, several studies investigating the role of polymorphisms in the gene encoding UCP1 in susceptibility to obesity or metabolic syndrome have been performed. Here we summarize the results of studies describing the associations between the UCP1 gene polymorphisms A-3826G, A-1766G, Met229Leu and Ala64Thr and polymorphism Trp64Arg in the β3-AR gene, their correlations and their associations with the occurrence of metabolic syndrome.
Objective: To evaluate the immune effects of virus-like particles (VLPs) of VP1 proteins derived from norovirus G I.1 and G II.4 genotypes expressed in Hansenula polymorpha expression system. Methods: SDS-PAGE and Western blot assay were performed to detect the purity of G I.1 and G II.4 VP1 proteins after purification. Morphologies of the recombinant VLPs were observed under transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Sizes and distributions of the VLPs were analyzed by dynamic light scattering analyzer. BT50 (50% of blocking titer) was detected by HBGA (histo-blood group antigen) blocking assay in BALB/c mice immunized with different regimens. Results: SDS-PAGE analysis of the purified recombinant G I.1 and G II.4 VP1 proteins showed that their purity were greater than 90%. Western blot assay confirmed the specific bands of VLPs. TEM images showed that the sizes of purified G I.1 and GII.4 VP1 VLPs were at a mean diameter of 30-50 nm with clear border and high homogeneity, which was similar to that of wild virus. BT50 significantly increased in the groups, in which Al(OH)3 was used as adjuvant. Conclusion: Animal studies have shown that administration of G I.1 and G II.4 VP1 VLPs in the presence of Al(OH)3 induces detectable HBGA-blocking antibody, indicating that G I.1 and GII.4 VP1 VLPs are promising candidates for norovirus vaccine.
SRSF7 is a SR splicing factor involved in the regulation of splicing and mRNA export of cancer-related genes. The mechanisms regulating the expression of SRSF7 are unknown. This study shows that SRSF7 expression in cancer cells is regulated by microRNAs: short, non-coding RNAs that bind to 3′UTR of target genes and downregulate their expression. We show that microRNAs miR-30a-5p and miR-181a-5p together with SRSF7 form regulatory feedback loop in which the expression of microRNAs is recurrently regulated by its target. Finally, we demonstrate that silencing of SRSF7 affects the expression of osteopontin splice variants and decreases proliferation rate of renal cancer cells.
Interleukin-11 (IL-11) is a cytokine that plays a key regulatory role in the immune system. Recombinant human IL-11 (rhIL-11) exerts a preventative effect against apoptotic cell death and inhibits preadipocyte differentiation. IL-11 also is used to stimulate the bone marrow to produce platelets in order to prevent low platelets that may be caused by chemotherapy. Unfortunately, the high production cost of IL-11 associated. In this study, we investigated the feasibility of transgenic plants for the cost-effective production of rhIL-11. Production of rhIL-11 proteins in whole-plant expression system will be more economical when compared to the current E. coli based expression system. The human rhIL-11 gene was codon optimized to maximize plant host system expression. IL-11 expression vector under the control of a constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV 35S) promoter was introduced into tobacco by Agrobacteriummediated transformation. The 5′-leader sequence (called O) of tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) as a translational enhancer was added to construct. Transgenic tobacco plants expressing various levels of rhIL-11 protein were generated. Western blotting of the stably transformed lines demonstrated accumulation of the appropriately sized rhIL-11 protein in leaves. This research demonstrated the efficacy of using tobacco as an expression system for the production of rhIL-11.
In elucidating the role of pharmacodynamic efficacy at D3 receptors in therapeutic effectiveness of dopamine receptor agonists, the influence of study system must be understood. Here two compounds with D3 over D2 selectivity developed in our earlier work, D-264 and D-301, are compared in dopamine receptor-mediated G-protein activation in striatal regions of wild-type and D2 receptor knockout mice and in CHO cells expressing D2 or D3 receptors. In caudate-putamen of D2 knockout mice, D-301 was ~3-fold more efficacious than D-264 in activating G-proteins as assessed by [35S]GTPγS binding; in nucleus accumbens, D-301 stimulated G-protein activation whereas D-264 did not. In contrast, the two ligands exerted similar efficacy in both regions of wild-type mice, suggesting both ligands activate D2 receptors with similar efficacy. In D2 and D3 receptor-expressing CHO cells, D-264 and D-301 appeared to act in the [35S]GTPγS assay as full agonists because they produced maximal stimulation equal to dopamine. Competition for [3H]spiperone binding was then performed to determine Ki/EC50 ratios as an index of receptor reserve for each ligand. Action of D-301, but not D-264, showed receptor reserve in D3 but not in D2 receptor-expressing cells, whereas dopamine showed receptor reserve in both cell lines. Gαo1 is highly expressed in brain and is important in D2-like receptor-G protein coupling. Transfection of Gαo1 in D3- but not D2-expressing CHO cells led to receptor reserve for D-264 without altering receptor expression levels. D-301 and dopamine exhibited receptor reserve in D3-expressing cells both with and without transfection of Gαo1. Altogether, these results indicate that D-301 has greater intrinsic efficacy to activate D3 receptors than D-264, whereas the two compounds act on D2 receptors with similar intrinsic efficacy. These findings also suggest caution in interpreting Emax values from functional assays in receptor-transfected cell models without accounting for receptor reserve.
Neuroprotection is conceived as one of the potential tool to prevent or slow neuronal death and hence a therapeutic hope to treat neurodegenerative diseases, like Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s diseases. Increase of oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, excitotoxicity, inflammatory changes, iron accumulation, and protein aggregation have been identified as main causes of neuronal death and adopted as targets to test experimentally the putative neuroprotective effects of various classes of drugs. Among these agents, antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), both the old and the newer generations, have shown to exert protective effects in different experimental models. Their mechanism of action is mediated mainly by modulating the activity of sodium, calcium and potassium channels as well as the glutamatergic and GABAergic (gamma-aminobutyric acid) synapses. Neurological pathologies in which a neuroprotective action of AEDs has been demonstrated in specific experimental models include: cerebral ischemia, Parkinson’s disease, and Alzheimer’s disease. Although the whole of experimental data indicating that neuroprotection can be achieved is remarkable and encouraging, no firm data have been produced in humans so far and, at the present time, neuroprotection still remains a challenge for the future.
Rhizoctonia leaf blight (large patch) has become a serious problem in Korean lawn grass, which is extremely hard to treat and develops mostly from the roots of lawn grass to wither it away. Rhizoctonia leaf blight (large patch) is caused by Rhizoctonia solani AG2-2 (IV). To develop zoysia japonica with strong disease tolerance against this pathogenic bacterium, β-1,3-glucanase was cloned from zoysia japonica, which is one of the PR-Proteins known to play a critical role in plant defense reaction. β-1,3-glucanase is known to be generated within the cells when plant tissues have a hypersensitive reaction due to virus or bacterium infection and secreted outside the cells to play mainly the function of resistance against pathogenic bacteria in the space between the cells. This study utilized the commonly preserved part in the sequence of corn, wheat, barley, and rice which had been researched for their disease tolerance among the β-1,3-glucanase monocotyledonous plants. Based on the part, degenerate PCR was performed to find out the sequence and full-length cDNA was cloned. E.coli overexpression was conducted in this study to mass purify target protein and implement in vitro activation measurement and antibacterial test. In addition, to interpret the functions of ZjGlu1 gene, each gene-incorporating plant transformation vectors were produced to make lawn grass transformant. Based on ZjGlu1 protein, antibacterial activity test was conducted on 9 strains. As a result, R. cerealis, F. culmorum, R.solani AG-1 (1B), and T. atroviride were found to have antibacterial activity. The gene-specific expression amount in each organ showed no huge difference in the organs based upon the transformant and against 18s gene expression amount.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder with unknown genetic and environmental causation in most of the affected individuals. On the other hand, there are a growing number of ASD-associated syndromes, where the exact genetic origin can be revealed. Here we report a method, which included the targeted next generation sequencing (NGS) and filtering of 101 ASD associated genes, followed by database search. Next, RNA sequencing was used to study the region of interest at the transcriptional level. Using this workflow, we identified a de novo mutation in the euchromatic histone-lysine N-methyltransferase 1 gene (EHMT1) of an autistic patient with dysmorphisms. Sequencing of EHMT1 transcripts showed that the premature termination codon (Trp1138Ter) created by a single nucleotide change elicited nonsense-mediated mRNA decay, which led to haploinsufficiency already at the transcriptional level. Database and literature search provided evidence that this mutation caused Kleefstra syndrome (KS), which was confirmed by the presence of the disorder-specific phenotype in the patient. We provide a proof of principle that the implemented method is capable to elucidate the genetic etiology of individuals with syndromic autism. The novel mutation detected in the EHMT1 gene is responsible for KS's symptoms. In addition, further genetic factors might be involved in the ASD pathogenesis of the patient including a missense DPP6 mutation (Arg322Cys), which segregated with the autistic phenotype within the family.
In this study, we aim to explore the potential benefits of puerarin on metabolic function of liver fibrosis (LF) rat induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4), and to investigate with the underlying molecular mechanism targeted on liver and pancreas tissues. In methodology, The LF rats were prepared through intragastrically giving CCl4 twice each week (2ï¿½ml/kg, v/w) for 8ï¿½weeks, and dosed puerarin (20, 40ï¿½mg/kg) were given three times each week via intraperitoneal injection. After being conducted with oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), the blood samples of rat were harvested for biochemical tests, as well as the liver and pancreas were isolated for histological examination and biochemical assays. The findings showed that puerarin-administered rats resulted in reduced glucose tolerance, blood insulin level, sero-enzymes of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and increased plasma level of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and reduced low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) content in serum. Further, the intrahepatic collagen deposits were lessened and positive cell of alpha smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) was lessened in puerarin treatment, while the pro-apoptotic cell numbers of Caspase 3, Bax in pancreatic islets were reduced dose-dependently. Moreover, the mRNA expressions of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α) in liver and pancreas were downregulated. In addition, TNF-α protein in the CCl4-lesioned liver and pancreas was reduced. Our findings demonstrate that puerarin contributes to attenuating the metabolic dysfunctions of CCl4-damaged liver and pancreas, in which the possible mechanisms may be linked to inhibition of inflammatory stress and normalization of metabolic homoeostasis in the liver and pancreas.
CDPKs(calcium-dependent protein kinases) play a very important role in abiotic stress response. Real-time PCR was used to analyze expression of SikCDPK1 gene to cold stress in Saussurea involucrata. Results showed that endogenous SikCDPK1 gene was induced by cold stress, and SikCDPK1 expression reached the peak after 3 h. The SikCDPK1 gene was constructed on dicotyledonous transformation vector pCAMBIA2300, which was composed of a strong promoter of CaMV35S, and the gene was introduced into tobacco NC89 by Agrobacturium-mediated transformation method to identify the gene function. It turned out that after cold stress, cold resistance of transgenic tobacco plants was significantly enhanced, and the content of proline, soluble protein and the activities of POD and SOD in transgenic tobacco plants were higher than that of wild type, whereas the MDA content and electrolyte leakage were lower than that of wild type plants. These results indicated that SikCDPK1 gene could enhance the resistance of plants to cold stress by accumulating more osmotic adjustment substances, enhancing the activity of the antioxidant system and maintaining the stability of the cell membrane.
Clover forages are suitable for sustainable low-input or organic dairying, since they require less nitrogen fertilization, while providing higher protein content in feed, than pure hay grasses. A partial equilibrium, economic sector model was used in analyzing land use and production effects of measures promoting clover-grasses, in forage production, in Finland. Reduced costs, higher clover-grass yield levels, premium payments for clover-grasses, and fertilizer taxes could increase clover-grass areas and feed use. The results suggest that premium payments for clover-grass areas or reduced costs may have little effect, while fertilizer taxes and higher yield levels of clover are more likely to result in significantly increased clover-grass production. We also found that the effectiveness of clover-grass promotion measures is highly dependent on crop and livestock product prices, as well as fertilizer prices. However, the potential for increasing clover-grass is limited due to, e.g., manure spreading requirements. It was found that it is hard to increase clover-grass area above 30%, from the current 15%, of overall grassland area in Finland.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution. Great genetic variability among teleost immunomes, with gene losses and expansions of central adaptive and innate components, has been discovered through genome sequencing over the last few years. Here, we demonstrate that the innate Myxovirus resistance gene (Mx) is lost from the ancestor of Gadiformes and the closely related Stylephorus chordatus, thus predating the loss of Major Histocompatibility Complex class II (MHCII) in Gadiformes. Although the functional implication of Mx loss is still unknown, we demonstrate that this loss is one of several ancient events appearing in successive order throughout the evolution of teleost immunity. In particular, we find that the loss of Toll-like receptor 5 predates the loss of Mx involving the entire Paracanthopterygii lineage. Using a time-calibrated phylogeny, we show that loss of MHCII and Mx overlap with major paleoclimatic and geological events indicating that these genetic changes were adaptive responses to the changing environment at the time.
Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) is caused by deficiency of α-L-iduronidase, involved in degradation of glycosaminoglycans. Clinical manifestations are widely variable and patients with severe phenotype present developmental delay and cognitive decline, among other systemic alterations. MPS I patients present secondary accumulation of gangliosides in neuronal cells, besides accumulation of undegraded glycosaminoglycans. Reduction of Neu1 expression has been previously observed in the cerebellum of MPS I mice; to be active, neuraminidase 1 forms the lysosomal multienzyme complex (LMC) with two other proteins, β-galactosidase and protective protein/cathepsin A, involved in stepwise degradation of gangliosides in the lysosomes. In this study, we evaluated relative expression of LMC genes and six possible regulators of their expression, microRNAs (miRNAs) from miR-17 family, which are predicted to target at least two LMC components, in the cerebellum of MPS I mice by real-time PCR. Neu1 was significantly underexpressed in MPS I mice cerebellum, whereas expression of other LMC genes was similar to controls. miR-20b and miR-106b were differentially expressed in MPS I mice, suggesting that they may be involved in the reduction of Neu1 expression; miR-20b-5p was overexpressed while miR-20b-3p and miR-106b-5p were underexpressed. The ratio between miR-20b-3p and miR-20b-5p was also altered in cerebellum of MPS I mice. Confirmation of binding predictions and analysis of the direct role of these miRNAs in the regulation of Neu1 expression could bring important information regarding LMC function. Since miRNAs from miR-17 family are involved in regulation of diverse biological processes, our results also point to new pathogenic cascades to be investigated in MPS I.
Background Most of mutations in the LMNA gene are unique and have been found in only a few unrelated families. The clinical interpretation of new genetic variants, especially beyond the coding area and canonical splice sites, is proving to be difficult and requires advanced investigation. Methods This study included patients with progressive cardiac conduction defects with neuromuscular involvement. The clinical evaluation included medical history and 24-h Holter monitoring. The genetic evaluation included mutation screening in the LMNA gene by the Sanger sequence. Sanger sequencing was followed by RT-PCR of the target fragment of cDNA. In silico modeling was performed with CCBulder and Modeller software. Results The diagnosis of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1B (LGMD1B) was established. The new intronic variant c.513 + 45 T > G was found in the LMNA gene in the proband and affected daughter. The insertion of 45 bp was confirmed in the proband's cDNA. The structural and possible functional effects of the aberrant protein were predicted. Conclusions Variant c.513 + 45 T > G in the LMNA gene likely translates into the longer lamin A/C proteins with additional 15 amino acids. This variant is thought to be pathogenic. Intronic variants in the LMNA gene located beside canonic splice sites may be responsible for some genotype-negative cases with clinical phenotype of laminopathies.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution.Streptococcus anginosus is a member of the normal oral flora that can become a pathogen causing pyogenic infections in humans. The genome of daptomycin-resistant strain J4206, originally isolated from a patient suffering from breakthrough bacteremia and septic shock at the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, was determined. The circular genome is 2,001,352 bp long with a GC content of 38.62% and contains multiple mobile genetic elements, including the phage-like chromosomal island SanCI that mediates a mutator phenotype, transposons, and integrative conjugative elements. Daptomycin resistance involves multiple alterations in the cell membrane and cell wall, and unique features were identified in J4206 that may contribute to resistance. A cluster of capsular polysaccharide (CPS) genes for choline metabolism and transport are present that may help neutralize cell surface charges, destabilizing daptomycin binding. Further, unique J4206 genes encoding sortases and LPXTG-target proteins that are involved in cell wall modification were present. The J4206 genome is phylogenetically closely related to the recently reported vancomycin-resistant SA1 strain; however, these genomes differ with SNPs in cardiolipin synthetase, histidine kinase yycG, teichoic acid modification genes, and other genes involved in cell surface modification. Transmission electron microscopy showed that the cell walls of both strains J4206 and SA1 were significantly thicker and more electron dense than daptomycin- and vancomycin-sensitive strain J4211. This comparative genomic study has identified unique genes as well as allelic variants in the J4206 genome that are involved in cell surface modification and thus might contribute to the acquisition of daptomycin resistance.
Objective: To analyze the effects of Leptospira interrogans (L.interrogans) infection on the activation of NLRP3 in THP-1 and J774A.1 cells and to further understand the mechanism of inflammation caused by L. interrogans in different hosts. Methods: Human mononuclear macrophage cell line (THP-1) and murine mononuclear macrophage cell line (J774A.1) were infected with L. interrogans strain 56601. The expression of NLRP3 at mRNA and protein levels were measured by using real-time RT-PCR and flow cytometry analysis, respectively. The NLRP3-mediated secretion of IL-1β, IL-18 and IL-33 was detected by ELISA combined with the NLRP3 inhibitory test. Results: Compared with the normal cells, the expression of NLRP3 at mRNA level in L. interrogans-infected THP-1 cells was respectively increased by 4.05, 0.34, 0.33, 0.06 and 1.66 times at the time points of 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 12 h and 24 h after infection (P<0.05), while that in L. interrogans-infected J774A.1 cells was respectively increased by 12.98, 16.19, 10.68, 5.8 and 0.57 times (P<0.05). The expression rates of NLRP3 protein in THP-1 and J774A.1 cells respectively increased from 9.26% to 94.01%, 89.24%, 31.80%, 19.74%, 11.28% and from 18.71% to 58.78%, 43.64%, 36.42%, 76.46%, 85.21% at the time points of 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 12 h and 24 h after L. interrogans infection (P<0.05). The level of IL-1β in L. interrogans-infected THP-1 cells was 73.07 pg/ml, 939.24 pg/ml, 939.24 pg/ml, 843.22 pg/ml and 851.06 pg/ml at the time points of 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 12 h and 24 h, respectively (P<0.05), while the level of IL-1β in L. interrogans-infected J774A.1 cells began to rise at the time point of 12 h from 191.17 pg/ml to 254.4 pg/mL at the time point of 24 h (P<0.05). The level of IL-18 in L. interrogans-infected THP-1 cells was 913.89 pg/ml, 808.19 pg/ml, 483.54 pg/ml, 204.19 pg/ml and 189.09 pg/ml at the time points of 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 12 h and 24 h, respectively (P<0.05), while the level of IL-18 in L. interrogans-infected J774A.1 cells increased at the time point of 24 h, which was 113.37 pg/ml (P<0.05). A slight increase in the level of IL-33 was detected in L.interrogans-infected J774A.1 cells at the time points of 12 h and 24 h to 201.14 pg/ml and 155.68 pg/ml, respectively (P<0.05), but no significant change was detected in L. interrogans-infected THP-1 cells (P>0.05). Results of the inhibitory test showed that the up-regulation of IL-1β, IL-18 and IL-33 in THP-1 and J774A.1 cells were effectively inhibited by the specific inhibitor of NLRP3. Conclusion: NLRP3 inflammasome was activated and involved in the production of specific inflammatory cytokines IL-1β and IL-18 in both THP-1 and J774A.1 cells after L. interrogans infection, but the inflammatory cytokines induced by L. interrogans infection varied in different cells. L. interrogans induced earlier and higher level of IL-1β and IL-18 production in human macrophages than in murine macrophages.
Background: Current research investigating the role of THBS2 and LECT-2 in atherogenesis is very limited. Therefore, we designed this study to demonstrate the role of THBS-2 and LECT-2 in atherosclerosis at the tissue level in fresh specimens. Material/Methods: A total of 32 patients who underwent coronary bypass surgery were enrolled. Aortic wall punch biopsies were obtained at the site of proximal aortosaphenous bypass graft anastomosis. A specimen of left internal mammarian artery (LiMA) was taken from the segment just proximal to its anastomosis. The aortic tissue is representive of the atherosclerotic tisue, and LiMA tissue is representative of the non-atherosclerotic area. The specimens were painted with CD68 for macrophage, and THBS-2 and LECT-2 antibodies for immunohistochemical staining. Results: Aortic THBS-2 levels were significantly lower, whereas aortic LECT-2 levels were significantly higher when compare to LiMA (14.4±9.9 (5–30) and 36.9±13.0 (5–60) p: 0.0001 and 20.3±15.0 (5–60) and 20.8±13,8 (10–30) p: 0.0001, respectively). CD68+ and monocyte level correlated significantly with AHA atherosclerosis grade (p=0.01, r=0.45 and p=0.001, r=0.56, Spearman’s test). CD68+ level correlated significantly with LECT-2 levels in atherosclerotic aortic tissue (p=0.026, r=0.392, Spearman’s test), whereas aortic TSBN-2 levels were not. Conclusions: The present study has taken the first steps to highlight new markers in atherosclerosis by using immunohistochemical method. The study results suggest that the tissue levels of THBS2 and LECT-2 may correlate with the stage of atherosclerosis.
Auxins are essential in plant growth and development. The auxin-stimulated elongation of plant cells has been explained by the "acid-growth theory", which was proposed forty years ago. According to this theory, the auxin activates plasma membrane H+-ATPase to induce proton extrusion into the apoplast, promoting cell expansion through the activation of cell wall-loosening proteins such as expansins. Even though accepted as the classical theory of auxin-induced cell growth for decades, the major signaling components comprising this model were unknown, until publication of recent reports. The major gap in the acid growth theory is the signaling mechanism by which auxin activates the plasma membrane H+-ATPase. Recent genetic, molecular, and biochemical approaches reveal that several auxin-related molecules, such as TIR1/AFB AUX/IAA coreceptors and SMALL AUXIN UP RNA (SAUR), serve as important components of the acid-growth model, phosphorylating and subsequently activating the plasma membrane H+-ATPase. These researches reestablish the four-decade-old theory by providing us the detailed signaling mechanism of auxininduced cell growth. In this review, we discuss the recent research progress in auxin-induced cell elongation, and a set of possible future works based on the reestablished acidgrowth model.
Introduction: Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) plays an important role in the modulation of plasma levels of low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLC). PCSK9 binds to the LDL receptor (LDLR), disrupts its endocytic recycling itinerary and directs it to lysosomal degradation. Activation of PCSK9 can thus decrease the expression of LDLR in the liver and inhibit LDL uptake, which leads to hypercholesterolaemia. Development: Currently we now know that different polymorphisms of PCSK9 are associated with the occurrence of ischaemic stroke. On the other hand, PCSK9 inhibitors prevent binding of PCSK9 to LDLR and inhibit degradation of LDLR, which results in increased hepatic uptake of LDL and lower LDL levels in blood.Different phase 2 and 3 studies, including OSLER and ODYSSEY LONG-TERM, have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of the new monoclonal antibodies against PCSK9 such as evolucumab and alirocumab, and the first exploratory analyses have shown evidence of their efficacy in decreasing vascular events, including stroke. Conclusions: Although few strokes have been reported by these studies, new ongoing trials examining the cardiovascular effects of evolucumab (FOURIER study), alirocumab (ODYSSEY OUTCOMES study), and bococizumab (SPIRE-1 and SPIRE-2 studies) will reveal the true potential of these drugs, particularly for the prevention of stroke.
Living modified (LM) crops are imported each year to South Korea as food and feeds, LM canola being one of the imported crops. The cultivation of LM crops is not permitted in South Korea but the import of these crops is increasing. In this study, we surveyed the environmental risk of imported LM canola at 9 provinces, from March 2009 to June 2013. Monitoring of canola was conducted around feed factories, roadsides, harbors, farmhouses, and flower festival regions. From the total of 595 canola samples collected from 1850 monitoring sites, we identified 6 LM canola samples. The LM canola samples were subjected to protein and DNA based analysis. PCR analyses using approved 5 single event primers (T45, MS8, RT73, Rf3 and Topas 19-2) revealed that two crops were glyphosate-resistant LM canolas, and four were glufosinate-resistant LM canolas. This study suggested that environmental monitoring is a useful research tool to manage LM crops unintentionally introduced into the environment in South Korea. This result can be used as a basis for future post-management of canola crops.
The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Panax ginseng breeding line 'G07006', showing higher salt tolerance, was confirmed by de novo assembly using whole genome next-generation sequences. The complete chloroplast (CP) genome size is 156,356 bp, including two inverted repeats (IRs) of 52,060 bp, separated by the large single-copy (LSC 86,174 bp) and the small single-copy (SSC 18,122 bp) regions. One hundred fourteen genes were annotated, including 80 protein-coding genes, 30 tRNA genes, and 4 rRNA genes. Among them, 18 sites were duplicated in the inverted repeat regions. By comparative analyses of the previously identified CP genome sequences of nine cultivars of P. ginseng and that of G07006, five useful SNPs were defined in this study. Since three of the five SNPs were cultivar-specific to Chunpoong and Sunhyang, they could be easily used for distinguishing from other ginseng accessions. However, on arranging SNPs according to their gene location, the G07006 genotype was 'GTGGA', which was distinct from other accessions. This complete chloroplast DNA sequence could be conducive to discrimination of the line G07006 (salttolerant) and further enhancement of the genetic improvement program for this important medicinal plant.
The results of numerous epidemiological studies indicate that phospholipids play an important role in the prevention of chronic diseases faced by contemporary society. Firstly, these compounds are responsible for the proper functioning of cell membranes, by ensuring liquidity and permeability, which is pivotal for normal activity of membrane proteins, including receptors. These mechanisms are at the core of prevention of cancer, autoimmune or neurological disorders. Secondly, structure and properties of phospholipids cause that they are highly available source of biologically active fatty acids. Thirdly, also products of endogenous hydrolysis of phospholipids exhibit biological activity. These include lysophospholipids formed as a result of disconnecting free fatty acid from glycerophospholipids in the reaction catalyzed by phospholipase A, phosphatidic acid and hydrophilic subunits released by the activity of phospholipase D. The bioactive products of hydrolysis also include ceramides liberated from phosphosphingolipids after removal of a hydrophilic unit catalyzed by sphingomyelinase. Phospholipids are supplied to the human body with food. A high content of phospholipids is characteristic for egg yolk, liver, pork and poultry, as well as some soy products. Particularly beneficial are phospholipids derived from seafood because they are a rich source of essential fatty acids of the n-3 family.
Aim: Mammary tumors are the most prevalent type of neoplasms in canines. Even though cancer induced metabolic alterations are well established, the clinical data describing the metabolic profiles of animal tumors is not available. Hence, our present investigation was carried out with the aim of studying changes in carbohydrate metabolism along with the level of oxidative stress in canine mammary tumors. Materials and Methods: Fresh mammary tumor tissues along with the adjacent healthy tissues were collected from the college surgical ward. The levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), glutathione, protein, hexose, hexokinase, glucose-6-phosphatase, fructose-1, 6-bisphosphatase, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) were analyzed in all the tissues. The results were analyzed statistically. Results: More than two-fold increase in TBARS and three-fold increase in glutathione levels were observed in neoplastic tissues. Hexokinase activity and hexose concentration (175%) was found to be increased, whereas glucose-6-phosphatase (33%), fructose-1, 6-bisphosphatase (42%), and G6PD (5 fold) activities were reduced in tumor mass compared to control. Conclusion: Finally, it was revealed that lipid peroxidation was increased with differentially altered carbohydrate metabolism in canine mammary tumors.
0 Unported License.The identification and exploration of the detailed organization of organs or of the whole body at the cellular level are fundamental challenges in biology. Transitional methods require a substantial amount of time and effort to obtain a 3D image and including sectioning the intact tissue, immunolabeling, and imaging serially-sectioned tissue, which produces a loss of information at each step of the process. In recently developed approaches for high-resolution imaging within intact tissue, molecular characterization has been restricted to the labeling of proteins. However, currently available protocols for organ clearing require a considerably long process time, making it difficult to implement tissue clearing techniques in the lab. We recently established a rapid and highly-reproducible protocol termed ACT-PRESTO (active clarity technique–pressure related efficient and stable transfer of macromolecules into organs), which allows for tissue clearance within several hours. Moreover, ACT-PRESTO enables rapid immunolabeling with conventional methods and accelerates antibody penetration into the deep layer of densely-formed, thick specimens by applying pressure or convection flow. We describe how to prepare tissues, how to clear by lipid removal using electrophoresis, and how to immuno-stain by a pressure-assisted delivery. The rapidity and consistency of the protocol will expedite the performance of 3D histological research and volume-based diagnoses.
In order to develop tobacco flavor with prominent style of roasted sweet aroma from jujube, the characteristic fractions and components with roasted sweet aroma of jujube extract were determined by sensory evaluation, gas chromatography (GC), gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Preparation methods and main parameters were optimized by using contents of characteristic components as index. Results showed that: 1) The fraction of jujube extract eluted by 30% of ethonal solution was significant in roasted sweet aroma note. The identified seven aroma components with characteristic note of roasted sweet aroma were 4-cyclopentene-1, 3-dione, 5-methylfurfural, cyclotene, 4-hydroxy-2, 5-dimethyl-3(2H)-furanone, maltol, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural and 2, 3-dihydro-3, 5-hydroxy-6-methyl-4(H)-4-one (DDMP), respectively. 2) Heat extraction method was better for jujube, with optimal preparation process parameters as follows: ethanol concentration 65%, sample/solvent ratio 1: 5, extraction temperature 60℃ and extraction time 1.5h. The optimized process parameters of membrane separation were: ultrafiltration membrane with molecular weight cut off 8 kD and dry matter content of jujube extract 3%. 3) The total content of seven characteristic aroma components in jujube flavor obtained by optimal extraction and separation methods was significantly higher than that of commercially available jujube extract and crude extract. Jujube flavor did not contain protein and pectin which would produce unpleasant cigarette flavor. The roasted sweet aroma note of test cigarette with addition of jujube characteristic flavor was more prominent than other two cigarette samples.
Electrophysiological recordings of cells using the patch clamp technique have allowed for the identification of different neuronal types based on firing patterns. The inclusion of biocytin/neurobiotin in the recording electrode permits post-hoc recovery of morphological details, which are necessary to determine the dendritic arborization and the regions targeted by the axons of the recorded neurons. However, given the presence of morphologically similar neurons with distinct neurochemical identities and functions, immunohistochemical staining for cell-type-specific proteins is essential to definitively identify neurons. To maintain network connectivity, brain sections for physiological recordings are prepared at a thickness of 300 µm or greater. However, this thickness often hinders immunohistological postprocessing due to issues with antibody penetration, necessitating the resectioning of the tissue. Resectioning of slices is a challenging art, often resulting in the loss of tissue and morphology of the cells from which electrophysiological data was obtained, rendering the data unusable. Since recovery of morphology would limit data loss and guide in the selection of neuronal markers, we have adopted a strategy of recovering cell morphology first, followed by secondary immunostaining. We introduce a practical approach to biocytin filling during physiological recordings and subsequent serial immunostaining for the recovery of morphology, followed by the restaining of sections to determine the neurochemical identity. We report that sections that were filled with biocytin, fixed with paraformaldehyde (PFA), stained, and coverslipped can be removed and restained with a second primary antibody days later. This restaining involves the removal of the coverslip, the washing of sections in a buffer solution, and the incubation of primary and secondary antibodies to reveal the neurochemical identity. The method is advantageous for eliminating data loss due to an inability to recover morphology and for narrowing down the neurochemical markers to be tested based on morphology.
Objective: To investigate the effects of lincRNA-cox2 on the polarization of murine RAW264.7 macrophages by analyzing the expression of lincRNA-cox2 in RAW264.7 macrophages of M1 and M2 phenotypes. Methods: Murine RAW264.7 cells were induced by IFN-γ and LPS to polarize to M1 phenotype, and were induced by IL-4 to polarize to M2 phenotype. The expression of lincRNA-cox2 in M1 and M2 macrophages were analyzed by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-PCR). We designed and synthesized siRNA oligo for lincRNA-cox2 and unrelated sequences. Then the siRNA oligo and NC oligo were transfected into RAW264.7 cells by Lipofectmine™ 2000. The transfected RAW264.7 cells were induced by IFN-γ and LPS or by IL-4 to polarize to M1 or M2 macrophages. Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was performed to measure the secretion of IL-10 and IL-12 induced in different conditions. The expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), TNF-α, arginase 1 (Arg-1) and found in inflammatory zone 1 (Fizz1) at mRNA level were detected by RT-PCR. The M1 macrophages were transfected with siRNAs to knock down the expression of lincRNA-cox2 for analyzing the biological effects of lincRNA-cox2 on the polarization of macrophages. Results: The relative expression of lincRNA-cox2 in M1 macrophages was significantly higher than that in RAW264.7 cells and M2 macrophages. Compared with the control group, the RAW264.7 cells transfected with lincRNA-cox2-siRNA showed decreased secretion of IL-12 and inhibited expression of iNOS and TNF-α at mRNA level after IFN-γ and LPS induction, but increased secretion of IL-10 and enhanced expression of Arg1 and Fizz1 at mRNA level after IL-4 induction. Transfecting the M1 macrophages with lincRNA-cox2-siRNA inhibited the secretion of IL-12, but promoted the secretion of IL-10. Conclusion: This study indicated that lincRNA-cox2 was involved in the regulation of macrophage phenotypes by promoting the polarization to M1 macrophages and inhibiting the polarization to M2 macrophages.
Objective: To develop a microsphere-based suspension array for simultaneous detection and identification ofSalmonella H antigens by using Luminex xTAG technology and to evaluate its capability in serotyping Salmonellastrains. Methods: The fliC and fljB genes, encoding the H antigen of Salmonella, were selected as the target genes. Universal upstream primers were designed based on the highly conserved regions of fliC and fljB genes, and the corresponding specific reverse primers were designed based on the variable regions. While synthesizing, the 5' end of each upstream primer was labeled with biotin and the 5' end of each specific reverse primer was modified with its certain TAG sequence. After amplified and labeled with biotin and TAG sequence, the PCR products of specimens were hybridized with the mixture of various MagPlex-xTAG™ microspheres. Each set of microspheres contained its unique anti-TAG sequences. The results of hybridization were analyzed by using Luminex MagPix reader system and the median fluorescence intensity (MFI) was reported. The H antigens of 145 Salmonella strains were identified with this developed xTAG suspension array, and the results were compared with those obtained by using traditional serum agglutination test. Results: The PCR products of different H antigens ranged from 94 bp to 245 bp and could be identified by hybridizing with MagPlex-xTAG™ microspheres. There was no cross-reaction between different H antigens or with DNAs derived from Escherichia coli, Vibrio cholerae, Vibrio parahaemolyticus and Shigella flexneri. Compared with the traditional serum agglutination test, the sensitivity and specificity of the xTAG suspension array in the identification of H antigens of 145 Salmonella strains were 95.1% and 100%, respectively. Conclusion: The developed xTAG suspension array was a specific, accurate and effective method for simultaneous detection and identification of 31 H antigens of common Salmonella serovars strains. It could be used for determining the H antigens of more than 90 Salmonella strains within 5 hours.
GIV (aka Girdin) is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor that activates heterotrimeric G protein signaling downstream of RTKs and integrins, thereby serving as a platform for signaling cascade cross-talk. GIV is recruited to the cytoplasmic tail of receptors upon stimulation, but the mechanism of activation of its G protein regulatory function is not well understood. Here we used assays in humanized yeast models and G protein activity biosensors in mammalian cells to investigate the role of GIV subcellular compartmentalization in regulating its ability to promote G protein signaling. We found that in unstimulated cells GIV does not co-fractionate with its substrate G protein Gαi3 on cell membranes and that constitutive membrane anchoring of GIV in yeast cells or rapid membrane translocation in mammalian cells via chemically induced dimerization leads to robust G protein activation. We show that membrane recruitment of the GIV "Gα binding and activating" motif alone is sufficient for G protein activation and that it does not require phosphomodification. Furthermore, we engineered a synthetic protein to show that recruitment of the GIV "Gα binding and activating" motif to membranes via association with active RTKs, instead of via chemically induced dimerization, is also sufficient for G protein activation. These results reveal that recruitment of GIV to membranes in close proximity to its substrate G protein is a major mechanism responsible for the activation of its G protein regulatory function.
Vaccinia virus (VACV) is a poxvirus, and the VACV D4 protein serves both as a uracil-DNA glycosylase and as an essential component required for processive DNA synthesis. The VACV A20 protein has no known catalytic function itself but associates with D4 to form the D4-A20 heterodimer that functions as the poxvirus DNA processivity factor. The heterodimer enables the DNA polymerase to efficiently synthesize extended strands of DNA. Upon characterizing the interaction between D4 and A20, we observed that the C terminus of D4 is susceptible to perturbation. Further analysis demonstrated that a conserved hexapeptide stretch at the extreme C terminus of D4 is essential for maintaining protein integrity, as assessed by its requirement for the production of soluble recombinant protein that is functional in processive DNA synthesis. From the known crystal structures of D4, the C-terminal hexapeptide is shown to make intramolecular contact with residues spanning the inner core of the protein. Our mutational analysis revealed that a tripeptide motif (215GFI217) within the hexapeptide comprises apparent residues necessary for the contact. Prediction of protein disorder identified the hexapeptide and several regions upstream of Gly215 that comprise residues of the interface surfaces of the D4-A20 heterodimer. Our study suggests that 215GFI217 anchors these potentially dynamic upstream regions of the protein to maintain protein integrity. Unlike uracil-DNA glycosylases from diverse sources, where the C termini are disordered and do not form comparable intramolecular contacts, this feature may be unique to orthopoxviruses.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) can initiate intracellular signaling cascades by coupling to an array of heterotrimeric G proteins and arrestin adaptor proteins. Understanding the contribution of each of these coupling options to GPCR signaling has been hampered by a paucity of tools to selectively perturb receptor function. Here we employ CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing to eliminate selected G proteins (Gαq and Gα11) or arrestin2 and arrestin3 from HEK293 cells together with the elimination of receptor phosphorylation sites to define the relative contribution of G proteins, arrestins, and receptor phosphorylation to the signaling outcomes of the free fatty acid receptor 4 (FFA4). A lack of FFA4-mediated elevation of intracellular Ca2+ in Gαq/Gα11-null cells and agonist-mediated receptor internalization in arrestin2/3-null cells confirmed previously reported canonical signaling features of this receptor, thereby validating the genome-edited HEK293 cells. FFA4-mediated ERK1/2 activation was totally dependent on Gq/11 but intriguingly was substantially enhanced for FFA4 receptors lacking sites of regulated phosphorylation. This was not due to a simple lack of desensitization of Gq/11 signaling because the Gq/11-dependent calcium response was desensitized by both receptor phosphorylation and arrestin-dependent mechanisms, whereas a substantially enhanced ERK1/2 response was only observed for receptors lacking phosphorylation sites and not in arrestin2/3-null cells. In conclusion, we validate CRISPR/Cas9 engineered HEK293 cells lacking Gq/11or arrestin2/3 as systems for GPCR signaling research and employ these cells to reveal a previously unappreciated interplay of signaling pathways where receptor phosphorylation can impact on ERK1/2 signaling through a mechanism that is likely independent of arrestins.
Human protein tyrosine phosphatase β (HPTPβ) is an endothelial cell-specific receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase(PTP). HPTPβ plays an important role in regulating pathophysiological processes such as angiogenesis and cell-to-cell adherens junction, and is taken as a novel target for developing new antiatherosclerosis and antitumor drugs. In this review, the latest research progress in the structure, physiological functions and small molecular inhibitors of HPTPβ is summarized.
DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair by non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) in human cells is initiated by Ku heterodimer binding to a DSB, followed by recruitment of core NHEJ factors including DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs), XRCC4-like factor (XLF), and XRCC4 (X4)-DNA ligase IV (L4). Ku also interacts with accessory factors such as aprataxin and polynucleotide kinase/phosphatase-like factor (APLF). Yet, how these factors interact to tether, process, and ligate DSB ends while allowing regulation and chromatin interactions remains enigmatic. Here, small angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) and mutational analyses show APLF is largely an intrinsically disordered protein that binds Ku, Ku/DNA-PKcs (DNA-PK), and X4L4 within an extended flexible NHEJ core complex. X4L4 assembles with Ku heterodimers linked to DNA-PKcs via flexible Ku80 C-terminal regions (Ku80CTR) in a complex stabilized through APLF interactions with Ku, DNA-PK, and X4L4. Collective results unveil the solution architecture of the six-protein complex and suggest cooperative assembly of an extended flexible NHEJ core complex that supports APLF accessibility while possibly providing flexible attachment of the core complex to chromatin. The resulting dynamic tethering furthermore, provides geometric access of L4 catalytic domains to the DNA ends during ligation and of DNA-PKcs for targeted phosphorylation of other NHEJ proteins as well as trans-phosphorylation of DNA-PKcs on the opposing DSB without disrupting the core ligation complex. Overall the results shed light on evolutionary conservation of Ku, X4, and L4 activities, while explaining the observation that Ku80CTR and DNA-PKcs only occur in a subset of higher eukaryotes.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) activate PI3K/v-AKT thymoma viral oncoprotein (AKT) to regulate many cellular functions that promote cell survival, proliferation, and growth. However, the mechanism by which GPCRs activate PI3K/AKT remains poorly understood. We used ovarian preantral granulosa cells (GCs) to elucidate the mechanism by which the GPCR agonist FSH via PKA activates the PI3K/AKT cascade. Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) is secreted in an autocrine/paracrine manner by GCs and activates the IGF1 receptor (IGF1R) but, in the absence of FSH, fails to stimulate YXXM phosphorylation of IRS1 (insulin receptor substrate 1) required for PI3K/AKT activation. We show that PKA directly phosphorylates the protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) regulatory subunit myosin phosphatase targeting subunit 1 (MYPT1) to activate PP1 associated with the IGF1R-IRS1 complex. Activated PP1 is sufficient to dephosphorylate at least four IRS1 Ser residues, Ser318, Ser346, Ser612, and Ser789, and promotes IRS1 YXXM phosphorylation by the IGF1R to activate the PI3K/AKT cascade. Additional experiments indicate that this mechanism also occurs in breast cancer, thyroid, and preovulatory granulosa cells, suggesting that the PKA-dependent dephosphorylation of IRS1 Ser/Thr residues is a conserved mechanism by which GPCRs signal to activate the PI3K/AKT pathway downstream of the IGF1R.
Folding of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) according to the two-stage model (Popot, J. L., and Engelman, D. M. (1990) Biochemistry 29, 4031-4037) is postulated to proceed in 2 steps: partitioning of the polypeptide into the membrane followed by diffusion until native contacts are formed. Herein we investigate conformational preferences of fragments of the yeast Ste2p receptor using NMR. Constructs comprising the first, the first two, and the first three transmembrane (TM) segments, as well as a construct comprising TM1-TM2 covalently linked to TM7 were examined. We observed that the isolated TM1 does not form a stable helix nor does it integrate well into the micelle. TM1 is significantly stabilized upon interaction with TM2, forming a helical hairpin reported previously (Neumoin, A., Cohen, L. S., Arshava, B., Tantry, S., Becker, J. M., Zerbe, O., and Naider, F. (2009) Biophys. J. 96, 3187-3196), and in this case the protein integrates into the hydrophobic interior of the micelle. TM123 displays a strong tendency to oligomerize, but hydrogen exchange data reveal that the center of TM3 is solvent exposed. In all GPCRs so-far structurally characterized TM7 forms many contacts with TM1 and TM2. In our study TM127 integrates well into the hydrophobic environment, but TM7 does not stably pack against the remaining helices. Topology mapping in microsomal membranes also indicates that TM1 does not integrate in a membrane-spanning fashion, but that TM12, TM123, and TM127 adopt predominantly native-like topologies. The data from our study would be consistent with the retention of individual helices of incompletely synthesized GPCRs in the vicinity of the translocon until the complete receptor is released into the membrane interior.
Effects of various pH values (4.0, 6.5 and 9.0) and ionic concentrations (0.1, 0.15, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7 and 0.9 mol/L) of NaCl on the solubility of two pork quality traits of normal and PSE (pale, soft and exudative) were studied by the micro-Kjeldahl method. The results showed that the solubility of pork protein was influenced by pH as well as ionic concentration of salt. Protein solubility arose with pH increase independent of ionic concentration and pork quality traits. In contrast, effect of ionic concentration was complex and depended on pH. In acidic solutions (pH4.0), ionic concentration reduced protein solubility no matter what pork quality trait is. Interestingly, with pH elevating, two pork quality traits illustrated different trends of ionic concentration dependency of solubility. This complex picture of pork protein solubility comes from several factors. First of all is the component variation in pork protein, which was corroborated by SDS-PAGE analyses. The second issue is the configuration modification of pork protein molecules, illustrated by the florescent spectrum technique. All induce the change of intermolecular interactions in protein molecules. Therefore, the solubility of pork proteins presented different trends under pH and salt concentrations. The last point is the difference of intra-molecular interactions of pork proteins in these two traits, demonstrated by zeta potential technique. All results presented may guide the pig farmers to control PSE meat generation and shed the light on pork industry to design and optimize PSE meat processes.
Adipose tissue expansion occurs by increasing the size of existing adipocytes or by increasing the number of adipocytes via adipogenesis. Adipose tissue dysfunction in obesity is associated with adipocyte hypertrophy and impaired adipogenesis. We recently demonstrated that deletion of the ubiquitin ligase Siah2 is associated with enlarged adipocytes in lean or obese mice. In this study, we find that adipogenesis is impaired in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes stably transfected with Siah2 shRNA and that overexpression of Siah2 in non-precursor fibroblasts promotes adipogenesis. In the 3T3-L1 model, loss of Siah2 is associated with sustained β-catenin expression post-induction, but depletion of β-catenin only partially restores PPARγ expression and adipocyte formation. Using wild-type and Siah2-/- adipose tissue and adipose stromal vascular cells, we observe that Siah2 influences the expression of several factors that control adipogenesis, including Wnt pathway genes, β-catenin, Zfp432, and Bmp-4. Consistent with increased β-catenin levels in shSiah2 preadipocytes, Wnt10b is elevated in Siah2-/- adipose tissue and remains elevated in Siah2-/- primary stromal cells after addition of the induction mixture. However, addition of BMP-4 to Siah2-/- stromal cells reduces Wnt10b expression, reduces Zfp521 protein levels, and increases expression of Zfp423, a transcriptional regulator of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ expression that controls commitment to adipogenesis and is repressed by Zfp521. These results indicate that Siah2 acts upstream of BMP-4 to regulate factors that control the commitment of adipocyte progenitors to an adipogenic pathway. Our findings reveal an essential role for Siah2 in the early events that signal undifferentiated progenitor cells to become mature adipocytes.
New therapies are needed to treat Clostridium difficile infections that are a major threat to human health. The C. difficile metalloprotease PPEP-1 is a target for future development of inhibitors to decrease the virulence of the pathogen. To perform biophysical and structural characterization as well as inhibitor screening, large amounts of pure and active protein will be needed. We have developed a protocol for efficient production and purification of PPEP-1 by the use of E. coli as the expression host yielding sufficient amounts and purity of protein for crystallization and structure determination. Additionally, using microseeding, highly intergrown crystals of PPEP-1 can be grown to well-ordered crystals suitable for X-ray diffraction analysis. The methods could also be used to produce other recombinant proteins and to study the structures of other proteins producing intergrown crystals.
Calpains (CAPN) are a family of Ca2+-dependent cysteine proteases that regulate various cellular functions by cleaving diverse substrates. Of the 15 mammalian calpains, CAPN8 and CAPN9 are two that are expressed predominantly in the gastrointestinal tract, where they interact to form a protease complex, termed G-calpain. However, because native G-calpain exhibits a highly restricted expression pattern, it has never been purified, and the interactions between CAPN8 and CAPN9 have not been characterized. Here, we clarified the molecular nature of G-calpain by using recombinant proteins and transgenic mice expressing FLAG-tagged CAPN8 (CAPN8-FLAG). Recombinant mouse CAPN8 and CAPN9 co-expressed in eukaryotic expression systems exhibited the same mobility as native mouse G-calpain in Blue Native-PAGE gels, and CAPN8-FLAG immunoprecipitation from stomach homogenates of the transgenic mice showed that CAPN9 was the only protein that associated with CAPN8-FLAG. These results indicated that G-calpain is a heterodimer of CAPN8 and CAPN9. In addition, active recombinant G-calpain was expressed and purified using an in vitro translation system, and the purified protease exhibited enzymatic properties that were comparable with that of calpain-2. We found that an active-site mutant of CAPN8, but not CAPN9, compromised G-calpain's substrate cleavage activity, and that the N-terminal helix region of CAPN8 and the C-terminal EF-hands of CAPN8 and CAPN9 were involved in CAPN8/9 dimerization. Furthermore, CAPN8 protein in Capn9-/- mice was almost completely lost, whereas CAPN9 was only partially lost in Capn8-/- mice. Collectively, these results demonstrated that CAPN8 and CAPN9 function as catalytic and chaperone-like subunits, respectively, in G-calpain.
Fascin is an actin bundling protein that cross-links individual actin filaments into straight, compact, and stiff bundles, which are crucial for the formation of filopodia, stereocillia, and other finger-like membrane protrusions. The dysregulation of fascin has been implicated in cancer metastasis, hearing loss, and blindness. Here we identified monoubiquitination as a novel mechanism that regulates fascin bundling activity and dynamics. The monoubiquitination sites were identified to be Lys247 and Lys250, two residues located in a positive charge patch at the actin binding site 2 of fascin. Using a chemical ubiquitination method, we synthesized chemically monoubiquitinated fascin and determined the effects of monoubiquitination on fascin bundling activity and dynamics. Our data demonstrated that monoubiquitination decreased the fascin bundling EC50, delayed the initiation of bundle assembly, and accelerated the disassembly of existing bundles. By analyzing the electrostatic properties on the solvent-accessible surface of fascin, we proposed that monoubiquitination introduced steric hindrance to interfere with the interaction between actin filaments and the positively charged patch at actin binding site 2. We also identified Smurf1 as a E3 ligase regulating the monoubiquitination of fascin. Our findings revealed a previously unidentified regulatory mechanism for fascin, which will have important implications for the understanding of actin bundle regulation under physiological and pathological conditions.
Novel albumin hybrid nanoparticles (Alb-HNPs) loaded with tyrosine kinase A (TrkA) inhibitor GNF-5837 were prepared and evaluated for antineoplastic efficacy in a panel of breast cancer cell lines. The nanomedicines (GNF-Alb-HNPs, hydrodynamic diameter ∼150 nm) were formed through a unique polyelectrolyte complexation process where albumin and GNF-5837 were encapsulated by a stabilizing layer of oppositely charged chitosan and dextran sulfate polysaccharides. GNF-Alb-HNPs showed an excellent colloidal stability and a sustained drug release over more than 24 h. We found that these nanomedicines inhibited TrkA phosphorylation and downstream mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling in breast cancer cells specifically, resulting in anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects. Moreover, the migration and invasion activities of cancer cells were dramatically suppressed and the inhibitory effects were much more prominent with GNF-Alb-HNPS than the drug alone. These results show that the GNF-Alb-HNPs may represent a novel approach for targeted breast cancer therapy.
Collagen and fibronectin (Fn) are two key extracellular matrix proteins, which are known to interact and jointly shape matrix structure and function. Most proteins that interact with collagen bind only to the native triple-helical form, whereas Fn is unusual in binding strongly to denatured collagen and more weakly to native collagen. The consequences of replacing a Gly by Ser at each position in the required (Gly-Xaa-Yaa)6 Fn-binding sequence are probed here, using model peptides and a recombinant bacterial collagen system. Fluorescence polarization and solid-state assays indicated that Gly replacements at four sites within the Fn-binding sequence led to decreased Fn binding to denatured collagen. Molecular dynamics simulations showed these Gly replacements interfered with the interaction of a collagen β-strand with the β-sheet structure of Fn modules seen in the high resolution crystal structure. Whereas previous studies showed that Gly to Ser mutations within an integrin-binding site caused no major structural perturbations, mutations within the Fn-binding site caused the triple helix to become highly sensitive to trypsin digestion. This trypsin susceptibility is consistent with the significant local unfolding and loss of hydrogen bonding seen in molecular dynamics simulations. Protease sensitivity resulting from mutations in the Fn-binding sequence could lead to degradation of type I collagen, early embryonic lethality, and the scarcity of reported osteogenesis imperfecta mutations in this region.
Accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides in a brain is closely related with the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. To suppress the production of Aβ peptides, many kinds of agents have been developed for inhibiting the cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by secretases. However, because the secretases also play important roles the production of vital proteins for the human body, inhibitors for the secretases may have side effects. In the present study, to propose new agents for protecting the cleavage site of APP from the attacking of the γ-secretase, we investigate the specific interactions between a short APP peptide and curcumin derivatives, using protein-ligand docking as well as ab initio molecular simulations. Our proposed derivatives (curcumin VI and IX) are found to have a large binding energy with APP, and they are expected to be a potent inhibitor to the production of Aβ peptides.
The proceedings contain 18 papers. The topics discussed include: single molecule sequencing-guided scaffolding and correction of draft assemblies; JULiP: an efficient model for accurate intron selection from multiple RNA-seq samples; higher recall in metagenomic sequence classification exploiting overlapping reads; a deep learning-based segmentation method for brain tumor in MR images; fast algorithms for computing phylogenetic divergence time; identifying hotspots in five year survival electronic health records of older adults; RocSampler: regularizing overlapping protein complexes in protein-protein interaction networks; automatic analysis of neonatal video data to evaluate resuscitation performance; NanoBLASTer: fast alignment and characterization of oxford nanopore single molecule sequencing reads; assessing how multiple mutations affect protein stability using rigid cluster size distributions; an accurate and customizable text classification algorithm: two applications in healthcare; detecting intermediate protein conformations using algebraic topology; utilizing knowledge base of amino acids structural neighborhoods to predict protein-protein interaction sites; and prediction of missing common genes for disease pairs using network based module separation.
Objectives: To investigate the effect of nano yam polysaccharide (Chinese yam polysaccharide, hereinafter referred to CYP) biostime colon-specific microecologic health on the expression of cytokines and apoptotic Bcl-2/Bax proteins in rats with dysbacteriosis. Methods: Lincomycin hydrochloride was administered by oral gavage to cause dysbacteriosis in rats. Totalloy 84 rats were randomly divided into 7 groups, including control, dysbacteriosis model, natural recovery, nano CYP (147, 73.5, and 36.75 mg·kg-1) groups. IL-1α, IL-4, IL-17 in serum were detected by enzyme-linked immunoassay, and the expression of Bcl-2 and Bax proteins in colon tissues were detected by Western bloting. Results: Comparing with dysbacteriosis model, nano CYP biostime colon-specific microecologic health significantly increased serum content of IL-1α, IL-4, and IL-17 (P<0.05). It also significantly increased Bcl-2 expression in colon (P<0.01), but decreased Bax expression in colon (P<0.01). Conclusion: Nano CYP biostime colon-specific microecologic health can restore the expression of IL-1α, IL-4, and IL-17 to normal levels in rats with dysbacteriosis. It can promote Bcl-2 protein expression and suppress Bax protein expression. Thus, nano CYP biostime colon-specific microecologic health may improve immune regulation in rats.
This study mainly investigated the influences of different addition amount of porcine plasma protein hydrolysates on corn starch retrogradation and pasting properties. Porcine plasma protein was hydrolyzed by alkaline protease, and then the hydrolysates were mixed with corn starch in 2%, 4%, 6% and 8% quality. Transparency, retrogradation, solubility, swelling, freeze-thaw stability and water molecule movement in gelatinization process were investigated, while the application of low-field nuclear magnetic resonance (LF-NMR) was to study the mobility regularity of water molecules of corn starch in gelatinization process. The results of the study showed that, porcine plasma protein hydrolysates could significantly reduce corn starch paste's transparency (P<0.05), and with the dosage increased, decrease degree more obviously (P<0.05); could significantly reduce corn starch paste's retrogradation (P<0.05), effectively inhibited the retrogradation of corn starch; could significantly increase the solubility and swelling degree of corn starch paste, and with the increase of temperature, the solubility and expansion of starch paste also increased (P<0.05); could significantly reduce freeze-thaw syneresis rate of corn starch paste (P<0.05). At the same time, results of the LF-NMR showed that porcine plasma protein hydrolysates would increase the mobility of water molecules of corn starch in gelatinization process, but excessive amount would reduce the mobility of water molecules. The results showed that, porcine plasma protein hydrolysates could change the retrogradation and pasting properties of corn starch to a certain extent.
The fission yeast genome, which contains numerous short introns, is an apt model for studies on fungal splicing mechanisms and splicing by intron definition. Here we perform a domain analysis of the evolutionarily conserved Schizosaccharomyces pombe pre-mRNA-processing factor, SpPrp18. Our mutational and biophysical analyses of the C-terminal α-helical bundle reveal critical roles for the conserved region as well as helix five. We generate a novel conditional missense mutant, spprp18-5. To assess the role of SpPrp18, we performed global splicing analyses on cells depleted of prp18+ and the conditional spprp18-5 mutant, which show widespread but intron-specific defects. In the absence of functional SpPrp18, primer extension analyses on a tfIId+ intron 1-containing minitranscript show accumulated pre-mRNA, whereas the lariat intron-exon 2 splicing intermediate was undetectable. These phenotypes also occurred in cells lacking both SpPrp18 and SpDbr1 (lariat debranching enzyme), a genetic background suitable for detection of lariat RNAs. These data indicate a major precatalytic splicing arrest that is corroborated by the genetic interaction between spprp18-5 and spprp2-1, a mutant in the early acting U2AF59 protein. Interestingly, SpPrp18 depletion caused cell cycle arrest before S phase. The compromised splicing of transcripts coding for G1-S regulators, such as Res2, a transcription factor, and Skp1, a regulated proteolysis factor, are shown. The cumulative effects of SpPrp18-dependent intron splicing partly explain the G1 arrest upon the loss of SpPrp18. Our study using conditional depletion of spprp18+ and the spprp18-5 mutant uncovers an intron-specific splicing function and early spliceosomal interactions and suggests links with cell cycle progression.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) signaling via c-Met is known to promote endothelial cell motility and angiogenesis. We have previously reported that HGF stimulates lamellipodia formation and motility of human lung microvascular endothelial cells (HLMVECs) via PI3K/Akt signal transduction and reactive oxygen species generation. Here, we report a role for HGF-induced intracellular sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) generation catalyzed by sphingosine kinase 1 (SphK1), S1P transporter, spinster homolog 2 (Spns2), and S1P receptor, S1P1, in lamellipodia formation and perhaps motility of HLMVECs. HGF stimulated SphK1 phosphorylation and enhanced intracellular S1P levels in HLMVECs, which was blocked by inhibition of SphK1. HGF enhanced co-localization of SphK1/p-SphK1 with actin/cortactin in lamellipodia and down-regulation or inhibition of SphK1 attenuated HGF-induced lamellipodia formation in HLMVECs. In addition, down-regulation of Spns2 also suppressed HGF-induced lamellipodia formation, suggesting a key role for inside-out S1P signaling. The HGF-mediated phosphorylation of SphK1 and its localization in lamellipodia was dependent on c-Met and ERK1/2 signaling, but not the PI3K/Akt pathway; however, blocking PI3K/Akt signaling attenuated HGF-mediated phosphorylation of Spns2. Down-regulation of S1P1, but not S1P2 or S1P3, with specific siRNA attenuated HGF-induced lamellipodia formation. Further, HGF enhanced association of Spns2 with S1P1 that was blocked by inhibiting SphK1 activity with PF-543. Moreover, HGF-induced migration of HLMVECs was attenuated by down-regulation of Spns2. Taken together, these results suggest that HGF/c-Met-mediated lamellipodia formation, and perhaps motility is dependent on intracellular generation of S1P via activation and localization of SphK1 to cell periphery and Spns2-mediated extracellular transportation of S1P and its inside-out signaling via S1P1.
Background: Enzootic nasal tumor virus (ENTV-1) is an ovine betaretrovirus that has been linked to enzootic nasal adenocarcinoma (ENA), a contagious tumor of the ethmoid turbinates of sheep. Transmission experiments performed using virus isolated from cell free nasal tumor homogenates suggest that ENTV-1 is the causative agent of ENA; however, this etiological relationship has not been conclusively proven due to the fact that the virus cannot be propagated in vitro nor is there an infectious molecular clone of the virus. Methods: Here we report construction of a molecular clone of ENTV-1 and demonstrate that transfection of this molecular clone into HEK 293T cells produces mature virus particles. Results: Analysis of recombinant virus particles derived from the initial molecular clone revealed a defect in the proteolytic processing of Gag; however, this defect could be corrected by co-expression of the Gag-Pro-Pol polyprotein from the highly related Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus (JSRV) suggesting that the polyprotein cleavage sites in the ENTV-1 molecular clone were functional. Mutagenesis of the molecular clone to correct amino acid variants identified within the pro gene did not restore proteolytic processing; whereas deletion of one proline residue from a polyproline tract located in variable region 1 (VR1) of the matrix resulted in production of CA protein of the mature (cleaved) size strongly suggesting that normal virion morphogenesis and polyprotein cleavage took place. Finally, electron microscopy revealed the presence of spherical virus particles with an eccentric capsid and an average diameter of about 100 nm. Conclusion: In summary, we have constructed the first molecular clone of ENTV-1 from which mature virus particles can be produced. Future experiments using virus produced from this molecular clone can now be conducted to fulfill Koch's postulates and demonstrate that ENTV-1 is necessary and sufficient to induce ENA in sheep.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis escapes killing in human macrophages by secreting protein kinase G (PknG). PknG intercepts host signaling to prevent fusion of the phagosome engulfing the mycobacteria with the lysosome and, thus, their degradation. The N-terminal NORS (no regulatory secondary structure) region of PknG (approximately residues 1-75) has been shown to play a role in PknG regulation by (auto)phosphorylation, whereas the following rubredoxin-like metal-binding motif (RD, residues ∼74-147) has been shown to interact tightly with the subsequent catalytic domain (approximately residues 148-420) to mediate its redox regulation. Deletions or mutations in NORS or the redox-sensitive RD significantly decrease PknG survival function. Based on combined NMR spectroscopy, in vitro kinase assay, and molecular dynamics simulation data, we provide novel insights into the regulatory roles of the N-terminal regions. The NORS region is indeed natively disordered and rather dynamic. Consistent with most earlier data, autophosphorylation occurs in our assays only when the NORS region is present and, thus, in the NORS region. Phosphorylation of it results only in local conformational changes and does not induce interactions with the subsequent RD. Although the reduced, metal-bound RD makes tight interactions with the following catalytic domain in the published crystal structures, it can also fold in its absence. Our data further suggest that oxidation-induced unfolding of the RD regulates substrate access to the catalytic domain and, thereby, PknG function under different redox conditions, e.g. when exposed to increased levels of reactive oxidative species in host macrophages.
Stress granules (SGs) are cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein aggregates that are directly connected with the translation initiation arrest response to cellular stresses. Translation inhibition (TI) is observed in transient brain ischemia, a condition that induces persistent TI even after reperfusion, i.e. when blood flow is restored, and causes delayed neuronal death (DND) in selective vulnerable regions. We previously described a connection between TI and DND in the hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) in an animal model of transient brain ischemia. To link the formation of SGs to TI and DND after brain ischemia, we investigated SG induction in brain regions with differential vulnerabilities to ischemia-reperfusion (IR) in this animal model. SG formation is triggered by both eukaryotic translation initiation factor (eIF) 2α phosphorylation and eIF4F complex dysfunction. We analyzed SGs by immunofluorescence colocalization of granule-associated protein T-cell internal antigen-1 with eIF3b, eIF4E, and ribosomal protein S6 and studied eIF2 and eIF4F complex. The results showed that IR stress induced SG formation in the CA1 region after 3-day reperfusion, consistent with TI and DND in CA1. SGs were formed independently of eIF2α phosphorylation, and their appearance was correlated with a decrease in the levels of eIF4F compounds, the cap-binding protein eIF4E, and eIF4B, suggesting that remodeling of the eIF4F complex was required for SG formation. Finally, pharmacological protection of CA1 ischemic neurons with cycloheximide decreased the formation of SGs and restored eIF4E and eIF4B levels in CA1. These findings link changes in eIF4B and eIF4E to SG induction in regions vulnerable to death after IR.
Recently, increasing concerns have been raised about their biocompatibility, but studies about the effects of GOQDs on male reproductive system are still lacking. In this work, we explored the effects and molecular mechanisms of GOQDs on GC-2 and TM4 cells. We found autophagosome accumulation in GC-2 and TM4 cells after GOQDs treatment. Both LC3-II/LC3-I ratio and p62 levels increased, and the chloroquine-induced accumulation of LC3-II didn't enhance in the presence of GOQDs, which indicated that GOQDs blocked autophagic flux. Further studies found that the fusion between autophagosome and lysosome was not inhibited by GOQDs, but the proteolytic capacity of lysosome was weakened and both the expression and activity of cathepsin B reduced. Taken together, these results suggested that GOQDs blocked autophagic flux by decreasing the amount and enzymatic activity of cathepsin B and inhibiting lysosome proteolytic capacity in GC-2 and TM4 cells, which might have a potential hazard to male reproduction.
In order to improve the viability of Lactobacillus rhamnosus (L. rhamnosus) in the human gastrointestinal tract, L. rhamnosus was encapsulated in whey protein/isomaltooligosaccharide Maillard reaction products (WIMRPs) microspheres prepared by internal emulsification technique coupled with cold gelation process. The viability and release characteristic of encapsulated L. rhamnosus in Simulated Intestine Fluid (SIF) was also studied The results showed that gel strength of the Maillard reaction products of whey protein and isomaltooligosaccharide prepared in wet heating condtions (85℃, 2h) was maximum (P<0.05). Compare with whey protein, Maillard reaction products microcapsules' encapsulation yield increased by 3.75%. The viability of L. rhamnosus encapsulated by WIMRPs could be kept more than 7.49 log CFU/g and 7.17 log CFU/g after 90 min incubation in Simulated Gastric Fluid (SGF) and 3% bile salt solution. L. rhamnosus encapsulated in WIMRPs microspheres could be completely released in 60 min. These studies demonstrated encapsulation of L. rhamnosus in WIMRPs microspheres was an effective technique against extreme simulated gastrointestinal environment.
The γ2 subunit of GABA type A receptors (GABAARs) is thought to be subject to palmitoylation by both Golgi-associated DHHC-type zinc finger protein (GODZ; also known as DHHC3) and its paralog Sertoli cell gene with a zinc finger domain-β (SERZ-β; DHHC7) based on overexpression of enzymes and substrates in heterologous cells. Here we have further investigated the substrate specificity of these enzymes by characterization of GODZ and SERZ-β knock-out (KO) mice as well as double KO (DKO) neurons. Palmitoylation of γ2 and a second substrate, growth-associated protein of 43 kDa, that is independently implicated in trafficking of GABAARs was significantly reduced in brain of GODZ KO versus wild-type (WT) mice but unaltered in SERZ-β KO mice. Accumulation of GABAARs at synapses, GABAergic innervation, and synaptic function were reduced in GODZ KO and DKO neurons to a similar extent, indicating that SERZ-β does not contribute to palmitoylation or trafficking of GABAARs even in the absence of GODZ. Notably, these effects were seen only when mutant neurons were grown in competition with WT neurons, thereby mimicking conditions of shRNA-transfected neurons previously used to characterize GODZ. However, GABA-evoked whole-cell currents of DKO neurons and the GABAAR cell surface expression in DKO neurons and GODZ or SERZ-β KO brain slices were unaltered, indicating that GODZ-mediated palmitoylation selectively controls the pool of receptors at synapses. The different substrate specificities of GODZ and SERZ-β in vivo were correlated with their differential localization to cis- versus trans-Golgi compartment, a mechanism that was compromised by overexpression of GODZ.
Background: Liver fibrosis was viewed as a reversible process. The activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) is a key event in the process of liver fibrosis. The induction of senescence of HSCs would accelerate the clearance of the activated HSCs. Previously, we demonstrated that soluble egg antigens (SEA) of Schistosoma japonicum promoted the senescence of HSCs via STAT3/P53/P21 pathway. In this paper, our study was aimed to explore whether there are other signaling pathways in the process of SEA-induced HSCs aging and the underlying effect of SKP2/P27 signal on senescent HSCs. Methodology/Principal findings: Human hepatic stellate cell line, LX-2 cells, were cultured and stimulated with SEA. Western blot and cellular immunofluorescence analysis were performed to determine the expression of senescence-associated protein, such as P27, SKP2 and FoxO3a. Besides, RNA interfering was applied to knockdown the expression of related protein. The senescence of HSCs was determined by senescence-associated β-gal staining. We found that SEA increased the expression of P27 protein, whereas it inhibited the expression of SKP2 and FoxO3a. Knockdown of P27 as well as overexpression of SKP2 both suppressed the SEA-induced senescence of HSCs. In addition, the nuclear translocation of FoxO3a from the nucleus to the cytoplasm was induced by SEA stimulation. Conclusions/Significance: The present study demonstrates that SEA promotes HSCs senescence through the FoxO3a/SKP2/P27 pathway.
Insulin, a protein critical for metabolic homeostasis, provides a classical model for protein design with application to human health. Recent efforts to improve its pharmaceutical formulation demonstrated that iodination of a conserved tyrosine (TyrB26) enhances key properties of a rapid-acting clinical analog. Moreover, the broad utility of halogens in medicinal chemistry has motivated the use of hybrid quantum- and molecularmechanical methods to study proteins. Here, we (i) undertook quantitative atomistic simulations of 3-[iodo-TyrB26]insulin to predict its structural features, and (ii) tested these predictions by X-ray crystallography. Using an electrostatic model of the modified aromatic ring based on quantum chemistry, the calculations suggested that the analog, as a dimer and hexamer, exhibits subtle differences in aromatic-aromatic interactions at the dimer interface. Aromatic rings (TyrB16, PheB24, PheB25, 3-I-TyrB26, and their symmetry-related mates) at this interface adjust to enable packing of the hydrophobic iodine atoms within the core of each monomer. Strikingly, these features were observed in the crystal structure of a 3-[iodo-TyrB26]insulin analog (determined as an R6 zinc hexamer). Given that residues B24-B30 detach from the core on receptor binding, the environment of 3-I-TyrB26 in a receptor complex must differ from that in the free hormone. Based on the recent structure of a "micro-receptor" complex, we predict that 3-I-TyrB26 engages the receptor via directional halogen bonding and halogen-directed hydrogen bonding as follows: favorable electrostatic interactions exploiting, respectively, the halogen's electron-deficient σ-hole and electronegative equatorial band. Inspired by quantum chemistry and molecular dynamics, such "halogen engineering" promises to extend principles of medicinal chemistry to proteins.
The antineoplastic agent benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) acts by targeting multiple pro-oncogenic pathways/genes, including signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3); however, the mechanism of action is not well known. As reported previously, BITC induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) in Panc1, MiaPaCa2, and L3.6pL pancreatic cancer cells. This was accompanied by induction of apoptosis and inhibition of cell growth and migration, and these responses were attenuated in cells cotreated with BITC plus glutathione (GSH). BITC also decreased expression of specificity proteins (Sp) Sp1, Sp3, and Sp4 transcription factors (TFs) and several pro-oncogenic Sp-regulated genes, including STAT3 and phospho-STAT3 (pSTAT3), and GSH attenuated these responses. Knockdown of Sp TFs by RNA interference also decreased STAT3/pSTAT3 expression. BITC-induced ROS activated a cascade of events that included down-regulation of c-Myc, and it was also demonstrated that c-Myc knockdown decreased expression of Sp TFs and STAT3. These results demonstrate that in pancreatic cancer cells, STAT3 is an Sp-regulated gene that can be targeted by BITC and other ROS inducers, thereby identifying a novel therapeutic approach for targeting STAT3.
Preclinical and clinical evidence suggests that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is important in the therapeutic effect of antidepressants. A previous study demonstrated that the tricyclic antidepressant amitriptyline induces Gαi/o activation, which leads to GDNF expression in astrocytes. However, the specific target expressed in astrocytes that mediates antidepressant-evoked Gαi/o activation has yet to be identified. Thus, the current study explored the possibility that antidepressant-induced Gαi/o activation depends on lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPAR1), a Gαi/o-coupled receptor. GDNF mRNA expression was examined using real-time PCR and Gαi/o activation was examined using the cell-based receptor assay system CellKey™ in rat C6 astroglial cells and rat primary cultured astrocytes. LPAR1 antagonists blocked GDNF mRNA expression and Gαi/o activation evoked by various classes of antidepressants (amitriptyline, nortriptyline, mianserin, and fluoxetine). In addition, deletion of LPAR1 by RNAi suppressed amitriptyline-evoked GDNF mRNA expression. Treatment of astroglial cells with the endogenous LPAR agonist LPA increased GDNF mRNA expression through LPAR1, whereas treatment of primary cultured neurons with LPA failed to affect GDNF mRNA expression. Astrocytic GDNF expression evoked by either amitriptyline or LPA utilized, in part, transactivation of fibroblast growth factor receptor and a subsequent ERK cascade. The current results suggest that LPAR1 is a novel, specific target of antidepressants that leads to GDNF expression in astrocytes.
Renin inhibitors enhance endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) bioavailability and have protective effects on endothelial function and atherosclerotic changes. This study was designed to investigate whether aliskiren attenuates the effects of interleukin-6 (IL-6) on eNOS and the eNOS-caveolin-1 interaction in human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs). In this study, we examined the effects of pretreatment with aliskiren on the changes of IL-6-induced expression and activation of eNOS and caveolin-1 in cultured HAECs. IL-6 inhibited and aliskiren increased the phosphorylation of eNOS at Ser1177; however, eNOS protein and mRNA expression were not changed. Pretreatment with aliskiren attenuated the inhibitory effects of IL-6 on eNOS phosphorylation and nitric oxide production. IL-6 increased the phosphorylation of caveolin-1 at Tyr14 without affecting the caveolin-1 protein and mRNA expression. Pretreatment with aliskiren attenuated the effects of IL-6 on caveolin-1 phosphorylation. The binding of eNOS and caveolin-1, as determined by a co-immunoprecipitation assay, was increased by IL-6 treatment and decreased by aliskiren pretreatment. Furthermore, treatment with short interfering RNA of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase gene reversed the effects of IL-6 and aliskiren on eNOS and caveolin-1. In conclusion, aliskiren attenuates the inhibitory effects of IL-6 on eNOS phosphorylation and nitric oxide production and IL-6 induced caveolin-1 phosphorylation. In addition, aliskiren reverses the effects of IL-6 on the eNOS-caveolin-1 interaction.
Objective: To investigate the protective effect and mechanisms of noble dendrobium polysaccharides (NDP) on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced neuron injures in cerebral cortex glial cells and neuron mixed cultures of rat cortical of newborn rats. Methods: The primary cultures of cortical neurons and glial cells of newborn rats were prepared and verified the existence of neurons, astrocytes, and microglia respectively. NDP was added to LPS-induced mixed cultures of rat cortical, and the protein expressions of IL-1β, TNF-α, COX-2, IL-6 and the levels of p-NF-κB, p-p38, p-JNK, p-ERK were detected by Western blot. Results: After NDP was added to LPS-induced mixed cultures of rat cortical, NDP reduced the glial cell activation and neuron damage. NDP inhibited the protein expressions of IL-1β, TNF-α, COX-2, IL-6 and the levels of p-NF-κB, p-p38, p-JNK, p-ERK compared with LPS treatment alone. Conclusion: NDP inhibits LPS-induced neuron-inflammation in mixed cultures of rat cortical cells.
Predicting how amino acid substitutions affect the stability of a protein has relevance to drug design and may help elucidate the mechanisms of disease-causing protein variants. Unfortunately, wet-lab experiments are time intensive, and to the best of our knowledge there are no efficient computational techniques to asses the effect of multiple mutations. In this work we present a new approach for inferring the effects of single and multiple mutations on a protein's structure. Our rMutant algorithm generates in silico mutants with single or multiple amino acid substitutions. We use a graph-theoretic rigidity analysis approach to compute the distributions of rigid cluster sizes of the wild type and mutant structures which we then analyze to infer the effect of the amino acid substitutions. We successfully predict the effects of multiple mutations for which our previous methods were unsuccessful. We validate the predictions of our computational approach against experimental ΔΔG data. To demonstrate the utility of using rigid cluster size distributions to infer the effects of mutations, we also present a Random Forest Machine Learning approach that relies on rigidity data to predict which residues are critical to the stability of a protein. We predict the destabilizing effects of a single or multiple mutations with over 86% accuracy.
In this study, we examined whether vermicompost enhances a plant's tolerance to salinity. We analyzed the physiological responses of the aerial parts and roots of the herbal stress-resistant plants blessed thistle and peppermint with NaCl and cow manure vermicompost and inorganic fertilizer. Salinity greatly enhanced the accumulation of malondialdehyde (MDA) and proline in the aerial parts and roots of the two species, but did not affect chlorophyll content. The K+/Na+ and Ca2+/Na+ ratios and the total soluble protein content were decreased in the aerial parts and roots under salinity conditions in both species. Under normal conditions, vermicompost enhanced plant growth and increased the K+/Na+ and Ca2+/Na+ ratios and total soluble protein content while inorganic fertilizer treatment increased the total soluble protein content and proline content in both species. Proline content in both species was greatly decreased under vermicompost treatment than inorganic treatment under normal conditions. Furthermore, under high salinity conditions, vermicompost treatment significantly reduced the MDA content and increased total soluble protein content and the K+/Na+ and Ca2+/Na+ ratios than stress-treated plants. Vermicompost had complex effects on the antioxidant enzyme activities of plants grown under high salinity treatment. Our results show vermicompost mitigates the effects of salinity stress.
Nucleotide signaling networks are key to facilitate alterations in gene expression, protein function, and enzyme activity in response to diverse stimuli. Cyclic di-adenosine monophosphate (c-di-AMP) is an important secondary messenger molecule produced by the human pathogen Staphylococcus aureus and is involved in regulating a number of physiological processes including potassium transport. S. aureus must ensure tight control over its cellular levels as both high levels of the dinucleotide and its absence result in a number of detrimental phenotypes. Here we show that in addition to the membrane-bound Asp-His-His and Asp-His-His-associated (DHH/DHHA1) domain-containing phosphodiesterase (PDE) GdpP, S. aureus produces a second cytoplasmic DHH/DHHA1 PDE Pde2. Although capable of hydrolyzing c-di-AMP, Pde2 preferentially converts linear 5′-phosphadenylyl-adenosine (pApA) to AMP. Using a pde2 mutant strain, pApA was detected for the first time in S. aureus, leading us to speculate that this dinucleotide may have a regulatory role under certain conditions. Moreover, pApA is involved in a feedback inhibition loop that limits GdpP-dependent c-di-AMP hydrolysis. Another protein linked to the regulation of c-di-AMP levels in bacteria is the predicted regulator protein YbbR. Here, it is shown that a ybbR mutant S. aureus strain has increased acid sensitivity that can be bypassed by the acquisition of mutations in a number of genes, including the gene coding for the diadenylate cyclase DacA. We further show that c-di-AMP levels are slightly elevated in the ybbR suppressor strains tested as compared with the wild-type strain. With this, we not only identified a new role for YbbR in acid stress resistance in S. aureus but also provide further insight into how c-di-AMP levels impact acid tolerance in this organism.
Hypothiocyanite (OSCN-) serves as a potent innate defense system against microbes in the lungs. OSCN- is generated by the catalysis of peroxidases using thiocyanate transported via several anion transporters, including pendrin/SLC26A4 and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) generated by Duox1 and Duox2. We previously demonstrated that expression of pendrin, peroxidases, and Duox1/Duox2 is up-regulated in bronchial asthma patients and/or asthma model mice and that these molecules are important in accelerating airway inflammation. However, it remained unclear how activating these molecules would lead to airway inflammation. In this study, we examined whether OSCN- produced via the pendrin/peroxidase/Duox pathway causes inflammation via airway epithelial cells. In an in vitro OSCN- production system, OSCN-, but not H2O2, activated NF-κB, a transcription factor critical for inflammatory responses, in the airway epithelial cells. OSCN- was sensed by protein kinase A (PKA) followed by formation of the dimerization of PKA. The dimerized PKA, the active form, was critical in activating NF-κB. Detoxifying H2O2, mainly by catalase, enabled the dominant abilities of OSCN- to dimerize PKA and activate NF-κB, compared with untreated H2O2. Furthermore, OSCN- in high doses caused necrosis of the cells, inducing release of IL-33, a trigger to initiate type 2 inflammation. These results demonstrate that OSCN- in low doses activates NF-κB via PKA in airway epithelial cells, whereas OSCN- in high doses causes necrosis, suggesting an important role in airway allergic inflammation for the production of OSCN- via the pendrin/peroxidase/Duox pathway.
Purpose: Many cellular and molecular studies in experimental animals and early retinal function tests in patients with diabetic retinopathy (DR) have shown that retinal neurodegeneration is an early event in the pathogenesis of the disease. Somatostatin (SST) is one of the most important neuroprotective factors synthesized by the retina: SST levels are decreased in parallel to retinal neurodegeneration in early stages of DR. In this study, we characterized the induction of apoptosis (programmed cell death) in a 661W photoreceptor-like cell line cultured under high glucose (HG) conditions and the effect of SST. Methods: A 661W photoreceptor-like cell line and retinal explants from 10-week-old male C57BL/6 mice were cultured under HG conditions and treated with SST. Results: Hyperglycemia significantly reduced the cellular viability by increasing the percentage of apoptotic cells, and this effect was ameliorated by SST (p˂0.05). Activation of caspase-8 by hyperglycemia was found in the 661W cells and retinal explants and decreased in the presence of SST (p˂0.05). Moreover, we detected activation of calpain-2 associated with hyperglycemia-induced cell death, as well as increased protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) protein levels; both had a pattern of cleavage that was absent in the presence of SST (p˂0.05). Treatment of the 661W cells and retinal explants with SST for 24 h increased the phosphorylation of type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF-IR; tyrosine 1165/1166) and protein kinase B (Akt; serine 473), suggesting this survival signaling is activated in the neuroretina by SST (p˂0.05). Conclusions: This study has provided new mechanistic insights first into the involvement of calpain-2 and PTP1B in the loss of cell survival and increased caspase-8-dependent apoptosis induced by hyperglycemia in photoreceptor cells and second, on the protective effect of SST against apoptosis by the enhancement of IGF-IR-mediated Akt phosphorylation.
Emulsifying property is an important index of modified soy protein isolate. The main purpose of this study is to improve the emulsifying activity of SPI by adding different concentration of sucrose ester. Based on the result of emulsifying properties, DLS and FTIR were used to analyze the mechanism of the interaction of the SPI and sucrose ester. The results showed that EAI and ESI were significantly improved when SPI/sucrose ester is 1:100 in denatured and non-denatured system. According to result of DLS, samples with higher EAI showed smaller Z-average diameter, which suggested sucrose ester may inhibit aggregation of SPI. The secondary structure changed after adding sucrose ester or heat treatment.
Background: The sortilin-related receptor 1 (SORL1) gene, regulating the trafficking and recycling of amyloid precursor protein, has been related to Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The aim of the present study was to investigate the relationship between SORL1 polymorphisms, plasma concentrations of amyloid-beta (Aβ) isoforms, and AD and MCI susceptibility for a Han Chinese population in Taiwan. Methods: Eight single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in SORL1 and the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE) ε4 alleles were genotyped in 798 patients with AD, 157 patients with MCI, and 401 control subjects. Plasma concentrations of Aβ42, Aβ40, and neuropsychiatric tests for six different cognitive domains were examined. Results: Among the eight tested SNPs, SORL1 rs1784933 was most significantly associated with AD and MCI in our population. The G allele of rs1784933 exerted a protective effect and was associated with a reduced risk of AD (odds ratio [OR] = 0.75, p = 0.004) and MCI (OR = 0.69, p = 0.013). The significance remained after we adjusted for age, sex, and APOE ε4 alleles. For the overall participants, the plasma concentrations of Aβ42 were nominally significant for subjects carrying the rs1784933 G allele having a lower level than those without the G allele (p = 0.046). There was a similar trend for the G allele carriers to have a lower plasma Aβ40 level than noncarriers, but this was not significant. The nonsynonymous SNP rs2298813 was also related to a lower disease risk when AD and MCI were combined as a group (OR = 0.76, p = 0.035). However, there was no association between SORL1 genotypes and any of the six cognitive tests. Conclusions: Findings from our study provide support for the effect of SORL1 gene on the disease risks and pathognomonic surrogates of AD/MCI. The interaction between SORL1 polymorphisms and Aβ formation requires further study.
Burgeoning evidence supports a role for cyclooxygenase metabolites in regulating membrane excitability in various forms of synaptic plasticity. Two cyclooxygenases, COX-1 and COX-2, catalyze the initial step in the metabolism of arachidonic acid to prostaglandins. COX-2 is generally considered inducible, but in glutamatergic neurons in some brain regions, including the cerebral cortex, it is constitutively expressed. However, the transcriptional mechanisms by which this occurs have not been elucidated. Here, we used quantitative PCR and also analyzed reporter gene expression in a mouse line carrying a construct consisting of a portion of the proximal promoter region of the mouse COX-2 gene upstream of luciferase cDNA to characterize COX-2 basal transcriptional regulation in cortical neurons. Extracts from the whole brain and from the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and olfactory bulbs exhibited high luciferase activity. Moreover, constitutive COX-2 expression and luciferase activity were detected in cortical neurons, but not in cortical astrocytes, cultured from wild-type and transgenic mice, respectively. Constitutive COX-2 expression depended on spontaneous but not evoked excitatory synaptic activity and was shown to be N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent. Constitutive promoter activity was reduced in neurons transfected with a dominant-negative cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and was eliminated by mutating the CRE-binding site on the COX-2 promoter. However, mutation of the stimulatory protein-1 (Sp1)-binding site resulted in an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent enhancement of COX-2 promoter activity. Basal binding of the transcription factors CREB and Sp1 to the native neuronal COX-2 promoter was confirmed. In toto, our data suggest that spontaneous glutamatergic synaptic activity regulates constitutive neuronal COX-2 expression via Sp1 and CREB protein-dependent transcriptional mechanisms.
The thalassospiramide lipopeptides have great potential for therapeutic applications; however, their structural and functional diversity and biosynthesis are poorly understood. Here, by cultivating 130 Rhodospirillaceae strains sampled from oceans worldwide, we discovered 21 new thalassospiramide analogues and demonstrated their neuroprotective effects. To investigate the diversity of biosynthetic gene cluster (BGC) architectures, we sequenced the draft genomes of 28 Rhodospirillaceae strains. Our family-wide genomic analysis revealed three types of dysfunctional BGCs and four functional BGCs whose architectures correspond to four production patterns. This correlation allowed us to reassess the "diversity-oriented biosynthesis" proposed for the microbial production of thalassospiramides, which involves iteration of several key modules. Preliminary evolutionary investigation suggested that the functional BGCs could have arisen through module/domain loss, whereas the dysfunctional BGCs arose through horizontal gene transfer. Further comparative genomics indicated that thalassospiramide production is likely to be attendant on particular genes/pathways for amino acid metabolism, signaling transduction, and compound efflux. Our findings provide a systematic understanding of thalassospiramide production and new insights into the underlying mechanism.
Non-muscle cell contractility is critical for tissues to adopt shape changes. Although, the non-muscle myosin II holoenzyme (myosin) is a molecular motor that powers contraction of actin cytoskeleton networks, recent studies have questioned the importance of myosin motor activity cell and tissue shape changes. Here, combining the biochemical analysis of enzymatic and motile properties for purified myosin mutants with in vivo measurements of apical constriction for the same mutants, we show that in vivo constriction rate scales with myosin motor activity. We show that so-called phosphomimetic mutants of the Drosophila regulatory light chain (RLC) do not mimic the phosphorylated RLC state in vitro. The defect in the myosin motor activity in these mutants is evident in developing Drosophila embryos where tissue recoil following laser ablation is decreased compared to wild-type tissue. Overall, our data highlights that myosin activity is required for rapid cell contraction and tissue folding in developing Drosophila embryos.
CpG-oligodeoxynucleotide (CpG-ODN) can function as an immune adjuvant. Previously, we showed that stimulation of breast cancer cells with CpG-ODN conjugated with PAMAM dendrimer-coated magnetic nanoparticles (DcMNPs) has induced apoptosis. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the expression levels of some apoptosis-regulating genes in several human breast cancer cells treated with CpG/DcMNPs. Treated MDA-MB231 cells showed an increase in Noxa and Bax gene expression levels, whereas the expression level of Survivin decreased. Similarly, Noxa gene was overexpressed in treated MCF7 cells. In treated SKBR3 cells, a decline in the c-Flip mRNA level was determined. Furthermore, release of cytokines, IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α, was determined in cell culture supernatants. CpG/DcMNP treatment leads to an increase in the release of IL-6 in MDA-MB231 and SKBR3 cells, whereas release of IL-10 and TNF-α did not change significantly. It is indicated that CpG-ODN may show its cytotoxic effect by regulating the expression of apoptosis-related genes and the release of cytokine in breast cancer cells.
Serum hsCRP levels were assessed in 32 clinically acutely agitated patients and 42 healthy control subjects matched for demographic properties. Further, serum hsCRP levels in acutely agitated patients were compared with control subjects and with the levels after the patients were treated with anti-psychiatric medications. Meanwhile, the influence of clinical subtypes, family history, and gender, as well as the levels of white blood cell (WBC) counts were also considered. In results, serum hsCRP levels were significantly higher in acutely agitated patients with schizophrenia than in healthy subjects. The elevation of serum hsCRP in patients was not affected by gender, family history (P>0.05), and clinical classification of schizophrenia (P>0.05). However, the elevation of hsCRP was suppressed by the medical treatment for schizophrenia with acute agitation (P<0.05). In addition, WBC counts, another inflammation-related indicator, were also increased significantly in acutely agitated patients compared with healthy subjects, consistent with the elevation of serum hsCRP. In conclusion, hsCRP is an important indicator of immune alterations in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and has potential to be developed into a sensitive marker for the acute agitation in schizophrenia.
Both iron starvation and excess are detrimental to cellular life, especially for animal and plant pathogens since they always live in iron-limited environments produced by host immune responses. However, how organisms sense and respond to iron is incompletely understood. Herein, we reveal that in the phytopathogenic bacterium Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris, VgrS (also named ColS) is a membrane-bound receptor histidine kinase that senses extracytoplasmic iron limitation in the periplasm, while its cognate response regulator, VgrR, detects intracellular iron excess. Under iron-depleted conditions, dissociation of Fe3+from the periplasmic sensor region of VgrS activates the VgrS autophosphorylation and subsequent phosphotransfer to VgrR (ColR), an OmpR-family transcription factor that regulates bacterial responses to take up iron. VgrR-VgrS regulon and the consensus DNA binding motif of the transcription factor VgrR were dissected by comparative proteomic and ChIP-seq analyses, which revealed that in reacting to iron-depleted environments, VgrR directly or indirectly controls the expressions of hundreds of genes that are involved in various physiological cascades, especially those associated with iron-uptake. Among them, we demonstrated that the phosphorylated VgrR tightly represses the transcription of a special TonB-dependent receptor gene, tdvA. This regulation is a critical prerequisite for efficient iron uptake and bacterial virulence since activation of tdvA transcription is detrimental to these processes. When the intracellular iron accumulates, the VgrR-Fe2+interaction dissociates not only the binding between VgrR and the tdvA promoter, but also the interaction between VgrR and VgrS. This relieves the repression in tdvA transcription to impede continuous iron uptake and avoids possible toxic effects of excessive iron accumulation. Our results revealed a signaling system that directly senses both extracytoplasmic and intracellular iron to modulate bacterial iron homeostasis.
Zinc is a critical element for insulin storage in the secretory granules of pancreatic beta cells. The islet-specific zinc transporter ZnT8 mediates granular sequestration of zinc ions. A genetic variant of human ZnT8 arising from a single nonsynonymous nucleotide change contributes to increased susceptibility to type-2 diabetes (T2D), but it remains unclear how the high risk variant (Arg-325), which is also a higher frequency (>50%) allele, is correlated with zinc transport activity. Here, we compared the activity of Arg-325 with that of a low risk ZnT8 variant (Trp-325). The Arg-325 variant was found to be more active than the Trp-325 form following induced expression in HEK293 cells. We further examined the functional consequences of changing lipid conditions to mimic the impact of lipid remodeling on ZnT8 activity during insulin granule biogenesis. Purified ZnT8 variants in proteoliposomes exhibited more than 4-fold functional tunability by the anionic phospholipids, lysophosphatidylcholine and cholesterol. Over a broad range of permissive lipid compositions, the Arg-325 variant consistently exhibited accelerated zinc transport kinetics versus the Trp-form. In agreement with the human genetic finding that rare loss-of-function mutations in ZnT8 are associated with reduced T2D risk, our results suggested that the common high risk Arg-325 variant is hyperactive, and thus may be targeted for inhibition to reduce T2D risk in the general populations.
The regulating way of alkali-extracted polysaccharides from Momordica charantia L.(AEMP) on insulin resistant was studied. The insulin resistant model of HepG2 cell was induced by 0.25 mmol/L palmitic acid. Glucose consumption, glycogen content and TG content were measured, the mRNA expression levels of relative genes were determined. The results showed that 250, 500, 750μg/mL AEMP could significantly increase glucose consumption (P<0.05); 750 μg/mL AEMP also increased glycogen content(70.78% vs. 95.51%) and decreased TG content(132.97% vs. 115.93%); AEMP could increase PI3K (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase), AKT (protein kinase B)and PGC-1α (peroxisome proliferator activator receptor-γ coactivator)mRNA expression, decrease PEPCK (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase) mRNA expression. These findings suggest that AEMP may improve insulin resistance by activating PI3K-AKT and PGC-1α pathway; However, metformin can regulate glucose and lipid metabolism through AMPK-ACC2 (AMP-activated protein kinase-Acetyl-CoA carboxylase 2) and PGC-1α pathway.
Agronomic and environmental factors affect quality and quantity of constituents in Saffron. In this study, we compared chemical and antioxidant compounds of organic (OS) and inorganic (IOS) stigma of saffron and evaluated their anti-proliferative and apoptosis effects on cancer cells. Total antioxidant capacity of both saffron were characterized by FRAP, DPPH and Folin-Ciocalteu. HPLC and MTT methods were used to assay the amount of their secondary metabolites and anticancer effects, respectively. The expression of two apoptosis-related genes in treated cells evaluated by quantitative Real Time-PCR analysis. Our data indicated that OS has more secondary metabolites, antioxidant and cytotoxic properties compared to IOS. OS significantly inhibited cell viability in a dose- and time- dependent manner. Herb-induced apoptosis associated with increased expression of Bax and decreased Bcl2 gene leading eventually to a time-dependent increase in Bax/Bcl-2 ratio. Therefore, we can suggest organic saffron has promising and selective inhibitory effects on cancer cell proliferation.
Bioflocculants are essential polymers with their flocculating activity depending on the characteristics of the secreted flocculants by bioflocculant-producing bacteria. However, the characteristics of bioflocculant produced by microorganisms were not investigated profoundly. In order to better understand these characteristics, determination of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) from bioflocculant-producing bacteria were characterized in terms of protein concentrations. A total of 51 bioflocculant-producing bacteria isolates were screened from Pacific whiteleg shrimp, Penaeus vannamei culture ponds in Setiu, Terengganu, Malaysia. Screening of bioflocculant-producing bacteria were conducted through morphological approaches followed by protein extraction using Lowry assay method. The identified bioflocculant-producing bacteria includes Corynebacterium sp., Klebsiella sp., Lactobacillus sp., Staphylococcus sp., Bacillus sp., Streptococcus sp., Vibrio spp., Neisseria sp., Serratia sp. and Yersinia sp., with the highest protein concentration of 829 mg mL-1 were attained by Staphylococcus sp. The various amounts of EPS concentration produced by different species of bacteria were dependent on their specific population growth and growth rate. Therefore, the establishment of bioflocculant-producing bacteria isolated from biofloc which showed high tendency for EPS production were performed successfully.
Chemokine-like factor super family member (CMTM) is a novel generic family firstly reported by Peking University Center for Human Disease Genomics. CMTM8 is one member of this family and has exhibited tumor-inhibiting activities. It can encode proteins approaching to the transmembrane 4 superfamily. CMTM8 is down-regulated in most carcinoma cell lines and tissues. Over-expression of CMTM8 may inhibit the proliferation, migration, and invasion of carcinoma cells. However, the exact mechanism of its anti-tumor activity remains unclear. CMTM8 may be involved in various signaling pathways governing the occurrence and development of tumors. CMTM8 may be a new target in the gene therapies for tumors, while further studies on CMTM8 and its anti-tumor mechanisms are warranted.
Filamenting temperature-sensitive mutant Z (FtsZ) is recognized to be essential for performing bacteria cell division. Since the inhibition of activity and polymerization of FtsZ prevents the mycobacteria reproduction, five types of FtsZ inhibitors were defined in the previous experiments, and their effect on FtsZ was investigated. In the present study, we employ these inhibitors as ligands and investigate the specific interactions between FtsZ and these inhibitors at atomic and electronic levels, using ab initio molecular simulations based on protein-ligand docking, classical molecular mechanics optimization and ab initio fragment molecular orbital (FMO) calculations. From the ab initio molecular simulations, some key amino acid residues of FtsZ for the strong binding between FtsZ and ligand are highlighted. Based on the results, we propose a new inhibitor and demonstrate that it has a large binding affinity to FtsZ to be a potent inhibitor to FtsZ.
The reverse transcriptase (RT) existing in HIV has been recognized to play an essential role for increasing HIV. It is thus expected that inhibition of the RT activity prevents the increase of HIV. Many types of diarylpyrimidines were synthesized as the inhibitors to RT. Among them, TMC125 and TMC278 were found to play important roles in inhibiting RT activity. In the present study, we picked up some TMC278 derivatives as ligands and investigated the specific interactions between RT and the ligands at atomic and electronic levels, using ab initio fragment molecular orbital (FMO) calculations. First, the derivatives were docked into the ligand-binding pocket of RT using a protein-ligand docking program, and the docked structures were fully optimized in water by a classical molecular mechanics method. Finally, using ab initio FMO calculations, the specific interactions between each amino acid residue of RT and the derivatives were revealed at an electronic level. Based on the FMO results, we proposed some novel inhibitors to RT and demonstrated that one of them binds strongly to RT.
Nitric oxide (NO) is integral to macrophage cytotoxicity against tumors due to its ability to induce iron release from cancer cells. However, the mechanism for how activated macrophages protect themselves from endogenous NO remains unknown. We previously demonstrated by using tumor cells that glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) sequesters NO as dinitrosyl-dithiol iron complexes (DNICs) and inhibits NO-mediated iron release from cells via the transporter multidrug resistance protein 1 (MRP1/ABCC1). These prior studies also showed that MRP1 and GSTP1 protect tumor cells against NO cytotoxicity, which parallels their roles in defending cancer cells from cytotoxic drugs. Considering this, and because GSTP1 and MRP1 are up-regulated during macrophage activation, this investigation examined whether this NO storage/transport system protects macrophages against endogenous NO cytotoxicity in two well characterized macrophage cell types (J774 and RAW 264.7). MRP1 expression markedly increased upon macrophage activation, and the role of MRP1 in NO-induced 59Fe release was demonstrated by Mrp1 siRNA and the MRP1 inhibitor, MK571, which inhibited NO-mediated iron efflux. Furthermore, Mrp1 silencing increased DNIC accumulation in macrophages, indicating a role for MRP1 in transporting DNICs out of cells. In addition, macrophage 59Fe release was enhanced by silencing Gstp1, suggesting GSTP1 was responsible for DNIC binding/storage. Viability studies demonstrated that GSTP1 and MRP1 protect activated macrophages from NO cytotoxicity. This was confirmed by silencing nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), which decreased MRP1 and GSTP1 expression, concomitant with reduced 59Fe release and macrophage survival. Together, these results demonstrate a mechanism by which macrophages protect themselves against NO cytotoxicity.
To explore the novel utilization pattern of Antarctic krill (Euphausia superba) paste, key technologies and relational mechanisms of surimi seafood processing utilized Antarctic krill paste were studied. Making texture, color and water-holding capacity and sensory flavor as index, the adding state of krill paste, adding ratio of krill paste and adding ratio of functional ingredient were systematicly studied. A combination of SDS-PAGE, protein components analysis and protease activity determination was used to analyse the mechanisms. The surimi seafood samples were respectively producted by 20~60 parts (weight part) of krill paste and 100 parts of frozen surimi. The samples producted with steamed krill paste had a high gel strength between 527-885 g·cm, while the samples producted with equivalent fresh krill paste had inferior gel strength (<226 g·cm) or even unable to form stable gel structure. SDS-PAGE showed that the myosin heavy chains (200ku) and actin (43ku), originated from surimi, were irreversiblely degraded during processing since the adding of fresh krill paste, especially during the procedures of setting at 40℃ and heating at 93℃ Steaming, as the essential pretreatment of appling krill paste to surimi seafood, can ensure adequately denaturalization of water-soluble protein and inactivation of proteolytic enzymes. The color and sensory flavor of surimi seafood reached a ideal level when the added amount of steamed krill paste was 80 parts. The parameters of functional ingredient addition, optimized with single-factor tests and response surface method, were 7.91 parts of soy protein isolate, 5.38 parts of potato starch and 0.46 parts of carrageenan. The optimized surimi seafood processed in verification had excellent texture property and dense microstructure. The gel strength of which reached (534.35±24.77) g·cm.
Sepsis is a systemic inflammatory response to infection, accounting for the most common cause of death in intensive care units. Here, we report that peripheral administration of the hypothalamic neuropeptide orexin improves the survival of mice with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced endotoxin shock, a well-studied septic shock model. The effect is accompanied by a suppression of excessive cytokine production and an increase of catecholamines and corticosterone. We found that peripherally administered orexin penetrates the blood-brain barrier under endotoxin shock, and that central administration of orexin also suppresses the cytokine production and improves the survival, indicating orexin’s direct action in the central nervous system (CNS). Orexin helps restore body temperature and potentiates cardiovascular function in LPS-injected mice. Pleiotropic modulation of inflammatory response by orexin through the CNS may constitute a novel therapeutic approach for septic shock.
Objective: Recent studies implicate the role of inflammatory responses in chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU). The purpose of this study was to analyse the levels of neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and uric acid levels in CSU patients, and to investigate the relationship between these inflammatory parameters and disease activity. Material and Methods: A total of 100 people, consisting of 50 chronic urticaria patients and 50 healthy controls, who have no systemic disease, inflammatory, infectious or autoimmune disease, malignancy, were included in the study. Results: NLR and serum CRP levels were significantly higher in patients with CSU than in healthy controls (p< 0.001, p< 0.001, respectively). The levels of uric acid did not show a statistically significant difference between CSU patients and controls (p= 0.359). A significant positive correlation was found between NLR and CRP in patients with CSU (p= 0.001, r= 0.442).When CSU patients were evaluated according to disease severity, serum CRP levels were significantly higher in patients with severe CSU than in patients with mild-moderate CSU (p= 0.038). Conclusion: Several biomarkers have been studied in systemic diseases to determine the inflammatory process ongoing and the relationship between these markers and disease activity has been investigated. It can be concluded that CRP and NLR can be used to assess the inflammatory status in CSU and may be useful parameters during the follow-up of these patients. It is known that NLR and CRP are diagnostic and prognostic markers of cardiovascular diseases. Elevated values of NLR and CRP may demand caution regarding cardiovascular comorbidities that may accompany chronic urticaria.
Phaseic acid (PA) is a phytohormone regulating important physiological functions in higher plants. Here, we show the presence of naturally occurring (-)-PA in mouse and rat brains. (-)-PA is exclusively present in the choroid plexus and the cerebral vascular endothelial cells. Purified (-)-PA has no toxicity and protects cultured cortical neurons against glutamate toxicity through reversible inhibition of glutamate receptors. Focal occlusion of the middle cerebral artery elicited a significant induction in (-)-PA expression in the cerebrospinal fluid but not in the peripheral blood. Importantly, (-)-PA induction only occurred in the penumbra area, indicting a protective role of PA in the brain. Indeed, elevating the (-)-PA level in the brain reduced ischemic brain injury, whereas reducing the (-)-PA level using a monoclonal antibody against (-)-PA increased ischemic injury. Collectively, these studies showed for the first time that (-)-PA is an endogenous neuroprotective molecule capable of reversibly inhibiting glutamate receptors during ischemic brain injury.
VEGF-C and VEGF-D are secreted glycoproteins that induce angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis in cancer, thereby promoting tumor growth and spread. They exhibit structural homology and activate VEGFR-2 and VEGFR-3, receptors on endothelial cells that signal for growth of blood vessels and lymphatics. VEGF-C and VEGF-D were thought to exhibit similar bioactivities, yet recent studies indicated distinct signaling mechanisms (e.g. tumor-derived VEGF-C promoted expression of the prostaglandin biosynthetic enzyme COX-2 in lymphatics, a response thought to facilitate metastasis via the lymphatic vasculature, whereas VEGF-D did not). Here we explore the basis of the distinct bioactivities of VEGF-D using a neutralizing antibody, peptide mapping, and mutagenesis to demonstrate that the N-terminal α-helix of mature VEGF-D (Phe93-Arg108) is critical for binding VEGFR-2 and VEGFR-3. Importantly, the N-terminal part of this α-helix, from Phe93 to Thr98, is required for binding VEGFR-3 but not VEGFR-2. Surprisingly, the corresponding part of the α-helix in mature VEGF-C did not influence binding to either VEGFR-2 or VEGFR-3, indicating distinct determinants of receptor binding by these growth factors. A variant of mature VEGF-D harboring a mutation in the N-terminal α-helix, D103A, exhibited enhanced potency for activating VEGFR-3, was able to promote increased COX-2 mRNA levels in lymphatic endothelial cells, and had enhanced capacity to induce lymphatic sprouting in vivo. This mutant may be useful for developing protein-based therapeutics to drive lymphangiogenesis in clinical settings, such as lymphedema. Our studies shed light on the VEGF-D structure/function relationship and provide a basis for understanding functional differences compared with VEGF-C.
Earlier, we reported that arsenic-mediated enhancement of angiotensin II (AngII) signaling can impair vascular physiology. Here, we investigated whether the AT1 receptor (AT1R) blocker candesartan can ameliorate the arsenic-induced hypertensive vascular remodeling in rats and whether the amelioration could relate to attenuation in vascular AngII and TGF-β signaling. Rats were exposed to sodium arsenite (50 ppm) through drinking water for 90 consecutive days. Candesartan (1 mg/kg bw, orally) was administered once daily during the last 30 days of arsenic exposure. Non-invasive blood pressure was recorded weekly in conscious rats, while AngII-induced change in mean arterial pressure in anaesthetized rats was measured by invasive method on the 91st day. On this day, blood was collected from other animals for measuring AngII level. Western blot of AT1, AT2 and TβRII receptors; ELISA of PTK, RasGAP, ERK-1/2, TGF-β and CTGF; immunohistochemistry of phosphorylated Smad3, Smad4 and collagen III, hydroxyproline/total collagen estimation, collagen deposition by Masson's trichrome staining and histomorphometry were carried out in thoracic aorta. Arsenic increased non-invasive systolic, diastolic and mean arterial pressure. Further, AngII caused concentration-dependent incremental change in mean arterial pressure in the arsenic-exposed rats. Arsenic upregulated AT1 and TβRII receptor proteins; elevated the levels of PTK, ERK-1/2, TGF-β and CTGF, decreased RasGAP level and augmented the immunoreactivities of Smad3, Smad4 and collagen III. Arsenic also increased hydroxyproline/total collagen level, proliferation of collagen fibres and thickness of aortic wall and collagenous adventitia. Candesartan normalized blood pressure, regularized receptor expressions, MAP kinase and TGF-β signaling, restored collagen deposition and regressed aortic thickness. Our results demonstrate that candesartan can ameliorate the arsenic-mediated systemic hypertension and vascular remodeling in rats by regularizing the signaling pathways of AngII and TGF-β.
Background: Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death in many countries and myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is the cause of many serious heart diseases. Recent reports suggested that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is associated with the progress of ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. In a previous study, we illustrated that 4-phenylbutyric acid (4-PBA) reduces I/R-induced cell death in vitro through inhibiting the ER stress-initiated cell apoptosis. In the present study we investigated whether 4-PBA improves heart function in isolated rat hearts subjected to I/R and elucidated the potential mechanisms involved in 4-PBA-induced cardioprotective effects. Material/Methods: The isolated rat hearts were subjected to global ischemia and reperfusion in the absence or presence of 4-PBA. Hemodynamic parameters (LVSP, LVEDP, ±dP/dtmax, and HR) were monitored and histopathological examination was applied. The biomarkers related to oxidative stress were detected by LDH, ROS, MDA, CK, SOD, and GSH-Px kits. A TUNEL apoptosis assay kit was used to detect apoptosis. The expression levels of ER stress and apoptosis proteins were evaluated by Western blotting. Results: We found that 4-PBA (5 mM, 10 mM) pretreatment significantly attenuated cardiac dysfunction and depressed oxidative stress induced by I/R. Moreover, I/R activated the ER stress proteins Grp78 and PERK, which are all decreased by 4-PBA. 4-PBA pretreatment also inhibited the expression of CHOP, Caspase-12, and Bax, reduced the phosphorylation of JNK, and enhanced the expression of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. Conclusions: We elucidated the significant protective effects of 4-PBA against I/R injuries by inhibition of ER stress, oxidative stress, and their associated apoptosis.
The DNA mismatch repair (MMR) system corrects DNA mismatches in the genome. It is also required for the cytotoxic response of O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT)-deficient mammalian cells and yeast mgt1Δ rad52Δ cells to treatment with Sn1-type methylating agents, which produce cytotoxic O6-methylguanine (O6-mG) DNA lesions. Specifically, an activity of the MMR system causes degradation of irreparable O6-mG-T mispair-containing DNA, triggering cell death; this process forms the basis of treatments of MGMT-deficient cancers with Sn1-type methylating drugs. Recent research supports the view that degradation of irreparable O6-mG-T mispair-containing DNA by the MMR system and CAF-1-dependent packaging of the newly replicated DNA into nucleosomes are two concomitant processes that interact with each other. Here, we studied whether CAF-1 modulates the activity of the MMR system in the cytotoxic response to Sn1-type methylating agents. We found that CAF-1 suppresses the activity of the MMR system in the cytotoxic response of yeast mgt1Δ rad52Δ cells to the prototypic Sn1-type methylating agent N-methyl-N′-nitro-nitrosoguanidine. We also report evidence that in human MGMT-deficient cell-free extracts, CAF-1-dependent packaging of irreparable O6-mG-T mispair-containing DNA into nucleosomes suppresses its degradation by the MMR system. Taken together, these findings suggest that CAF-1-dependent incorporation of irreparable O6-mG-T mispair-containing DNA into nucleosomes suppresses its degradation by the MMR system, thereby defending the cell against killing by the Sn1-type methylating agent.
Blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown and the associated microvascular hyperpermeability followed by brain edema are hallmark features of several brain pathologies, including traumatic brain injuries (TBI). Recent studies indicate that pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1β (IL-1β) that is up-regulated following traumatic injuries also promotes BBB dysfunction and hyperpermeability, but the underlying mechanisms are not clearly known. The objective of this study was to determine the role of calpains in mediating BBB dysfunction and hyperpermeability and to test the effect of calpain inhibition on the BBB following traumatic insults to the brain. In these studies, rat brain microvascular endothelial cell monolayers exposed to calpain inhibitors (calpain inhibitor III and calpastatin) or transfected with calpain-1 siRNA demonstrated attenuation of IL-1β-induced monolayer hyperpermeability. Calpain inhibition led to protection against IL-1β-induced loss of zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) at the tight junctions and alterations in F-actin cytoskeletal assembly. IL-1β treatment had no effect on ZO-1 gene (tjp1) or protein expression. Calpain inhibition via calpain inhibitor III and calpastatin decreased IL-1β-induced calpain activity significantly (p < 0.05). IL-1β had no detectable effect on intracellular calcium mobilization or endothelial cell viability. Furthermore, calpain inhibition preserved BBB integrity/permeability in a mouse controlled cortical impact model of TBI when studied using Evans blue assay and intravital microscopy. These studies demonstrate that calpain-1 acts as a mediator of IL-1β-induced loss of BBB integrity and permeability by altering tight junction integrity, promoting the displacement of ZO-1, and disorganization of cytoskeletal assembly. IL-1β-mediated alterations in permeability are neither due to the changes in ZO-1 expression nor cell viability. Calpain inhibition has beneficial effects against TBI-induced BBB hyperpermeability.
Candida rugosa lipase was covalently immobilized onto functionalized magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs), and the particles were structurally characterized by TEM, XRD, FTIR, and VSM analyses. The MNPs-immobilized lipase (MNPs-IL) possessed a specific activity of 2.4 U/mg protein when the protein loading and immobilization efficiency were 38 mg protein/g MNPs and 95%, respectively. The enzymatic conversion of castor oil to biolubricant in a magnetically stabilized fluidized bed reactor (MSFBR) was studied. The performance of MNPs-IL in the reactor was affected by the magnetic field strength and liquid flow rate. The effect of other reaction variables, such as enzyme amount, substrate molar ratio, and temperature, were also determined. A 96.9% methyl ester yield was obtained after 24 h reaction under the optimum conditions. The biocatalysis was modeled with reference to the ping-pong bi-bi mechanism and considering substrate inhibition, and the following kinetic parameters were obtained: Vmax = 6.64 mmol/L min, Km,oil = 219.16 mmol/L, Km,methanol = 881.34 mmol/L, Ki,oil = 1305.74 mmol/L, and Ki,methanol = 623.15 mmol/L. The data were statistically analyzed, and the adequacy of the suggested model was confirmed. In a reusability test of the MNPs-IL in the MSFBR, 87% of the initial activity was retained after eight consecutive runs.
Despite the central role that antibodies play in the adaptive immune system and in biotechnology, much remains unknown about the quantitative relationship between an antibody’s amino acid sequence and its antigen binding affinity. Here we describe a new experimental approach, called Tite-Seq, that is capable of measuring binding titration curves and corresponding affinities for thousands of variant antibodies in parallel. The measurement of titration curves eliminates the confounding effects of antibody expression and stability that arise in standard deep mutational scanning assays. We demonstrate Tite-Seq on the CDR1H and CDR3H regions of a well- studied scFv antibody. Our data shed light on the structural basis for antigen binding affinity and suggests a role for secondary CDR loops in establishing antibody stability. Tite-Seq fills a large gap in the ability to measure critical aspects of the adaptive immune system, and can be readily used for studying sequence-affinity landscapes in other protein systems.
TGF-β promotes excessive collagen deposition in fibrotic diseases such as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The amino acid composition of collagen is unique due to its high (33%) glycine content. Here, we report that TGF-β induces expression of glycolytic genes and increases glycolytic flux. TGF-β also induces the expression of the enzymes of the de novo serine synthesis pathway (phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH), phosphoserine aminotransferase 1 (PSAT1), and phosphoserine phosphatase (PSPH)) and de novo glycine synthesis (serine hydroxymethyltransferase 2 (SHMT2)). Studies in fibroblasts with genetic attenuation of PHGDH or SHMT2 and pharmacologic inhibition of PHGDH showed that these enzymes are required for collagen synthesis. Furthermore, metabolic labeling experiments demonstrated carbon from glucose incorporated into collagen. Lungs from humans with IPF demonstrated increased expression of PHGDH and SHMT2. These results indicate that the de novo serine synthesis pathway is necessary for TGF-β-induced collagen production and suggest that this pathway may be a therapeutic target for treatment of fibrotic diseases including IPF.
Modern prosthesis often have a complex structure, where parts of an implant have different functional properties. This gradient of functional properties means that local surface modifications are required. Method presented in this study was develop to functionalize prefabricated elements with original roughness obtained by conventional treatments used to homogenize and clean surface of titanium implants. Demonstrated methodology results in multimodal, periodic grooved topography with roughness in a range from nano- to micrometers. The modified surfaces were characterized in terms of shape, roughness, wettability, surface energy and chemical composition. For this purpose, the following methods were used: scanning electron microscopy, optical profilometry, atomic force microscopy, contact angle measurements and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. Protein adsorption studies were conducted to determine the potential biomedical application of proposed method. In order to estimate the intensity and way of the protein adsorption process on different titanium surfaces, XPS studies and AFM measurements were performed. The systematic comparison of surface states and their osseointegration tendency will be useful to evaluate suitability of presented method as an single step treatment for local surface functionalization of currently produced implantable devices.
In this study, inhibitory effects of Pw-1 protein from pumpkin against 9 kinds of common plant pathogenic fungi and common pathogenic bacteria were tested. Meanwhile, thermal treatment, pH, UV irradiation and storage time affecting the antimicrobial activity of Pw-1 were also investigated. The results showed that Pw-1 had bacteriostatic activity against most of the 9 tested strains, and its bacteriostatic effects to Fusarium oxysporum, Staphylococcus albus, Bacillus subtilis, and Staphyloccocus aureus were stronger with the diameter of inhibition zone all above 10 mm. Stability experiments revealed that Pw-1 was stable to heat under 60℃, and the optimal pH was 7~9. Antibacterial activity of Pw-1 reduced obviously when the time of UV irradiation was more than 10 min. After -18℃ long time storage the antimicrobial activity of Pw-1 exhibited good stability.
Oil palm is an important industrial crop, and is usually harvested to obtain lipids and proteins. However, such biomass can be a source of important chemical biomacromolecules with several industrial applications. The aim of this work was to extract cellulose nanocrystals (CNC), cellulose nanofribrils (CNF), and lignin from pressed oil palm mesocarp fibers (POPMF). Initially, fibers were acetosolv pulped, resulting in two fractions: a lignin-rich black liquor and cellulose-rich pulp. Lignin was recovered from the black liquor and totally chlorine-free (TCF) bleaching was applied to purify the cellulose. Fibers and biomacromolecules were characterized using several methods including SEM, FEG/SEM, TEM, DRX, GPC, zeta potential, TGA, and FTIR. The pulping-bleaching treatment improved the amount of crystalline cellulose in the pulp, yielding CNC with good thermal stability, a length of 289 nm, diameter of 11 nm, and an aspect ratio of 26. The lignin presented a high purity, with a syringyl-rich structure and good thermal stability. Such characteristics highlight the potential use of POPMF lignin as a green building-block and POPMF nanocellulose materials as renewable biomaterials.
Objective To investigate the effects of omeprazole on the expression and the activity of CYP2C19 in HepG2 cells. Methods MTT assay was performed to screen the concentration range of omeprazole which did not inhibit HepG2 cell proliferation. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction(Q-PCR)were carried out to determine the effects of omeprazole (0, 0.1, 1 and 10 mg/L)on the expression of CYP2C19 mRNA, Western blot was carried out to determine the effect of(0, 0.1, 1 and 10 mg/L)on the expression of CYP2C19 protein. After incubation of different concentrations of omeprazole (0, 0.1, 1, 10 and 100 mg/L)with microsomes prepared from insect cells expressing human P450 isozyme, the fluorescence of the samples was detected in a plate reader to analyze if omeprazole inhibited the CYP2C19 activity. Results Omeprazole could down-regulate CYP2C19 mRNA and protein expressions of HepG2 cells in a dose-dependent manner. When the concentration of omeprazole reached 10 or 100 mg/L, the fluorescence intensities obviously decreased, indicating inhibited CYP2C19 activity. Conclusion Omeprazole inhibits the expression and the activity of CYP2C19 in HepG2 cell. When omeprazole is used in combination with drugs activated via CYP2C19 metabolism, their interaction should be considered carefully.
Background: CC chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) expression is vital for cell migration to secondary lymphoid organs (SLOs). Our previous work showed that inducing CCR7 expression enabled syngeneic mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) to migrate into SLOs, resulting in enhanced immunosuppressive performance in mice. Given that human adipose- derived stem cells (hASCs) are widely used in clinical therapy, we further investigated whether upregulation of CCR7 enables xenogeneic hASCs to migrate to rat SLOs. Material/Methods: hASCs rarely express CCR7; therefore, hASCs were transfected with lentivirus encoding rat CCR7 (rCCR7) plus green fluorescence protein (GFP) or GFP alone. CCR7 mRNA and cell surface expression of rCCR7-hASCs and GFP-hASCs were examined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and flow cytometry (FCM), respectively. The phenotype, differentiation, and proliferation capacity of each cell type was also determined. To examine migration, rCCR7-hASCs and GFP-hASCs were injected intravenously into Lewis rats, and the proportion of GFP-positive cells in the spleen and lymph nodes was determined with FCM. Results: mRNA and cell surface protein expression of CCR7 was essentially undetectable in hASCs and GFP-ASCs; however, CCR7 was highly expressed in rCCR7-ASCs. rCCR7-hASCs, GFP-hASCs, and hASCs shared a similar immunophenotype, and maintained the ability of multilineage differentiation and proliferation. In addition, the average proportion of GFP-positive cells was significantly higher following transplantation of rCCR7-hASCs compared with GFP-hASCs (p<0.01). Conclusions: These results suggest that upregulation of rat CCR7 expression does not change the phenotype, differentiation, or proliferation capacity of hASCs, but does enable efficient migration of hASCs to rat SLOs.
The risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is highly dependent on apolipoprotein-E (apoE) genotype. The reasons for apoE isoform-selective risk are uncertain; however, both the amounts and structure of human apoE isoforms have been hypothesized to lead to amyloidosis increasing the risk for AD. To address the hypothesis that amounts of apoE isoforms are different in the human CNS, we developed a novel isoform-specific method to accurately quantify apoE isoforms in clinically relevant samples. The method utilizes an antibody-free enrichment step and isotope-labeled physiologically relevant lipoprotein particle standards produced by immortalized astrocytes. We applied this method to a cohort of well characterized clinical samples and observed the following findings. The apoE isoform amounts are not different in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from young normal controls, suggesting that the amount of apoE isoforms is not the reason for risk of amyloidosis prior to the onset of advanced age. We did, however, observe an age-related increase in both apoE isoforms. In contrast to normal aging, the presence of amyloid increased apoE3, whereas apoE4 was unchanged or decreased. Importantly, for heterozygotes, the apoE4/apoE3 isoform ratio was increased in the CNS, although the reverse was true in the periphery. Finally, CSF apoE levels, but not plasma apoE levels, correlated with CSF β-amyloid levels. Collectively, these findings support the hypothesis that CNS and peripheral apoE are separate pools and differentially regulated. Furthermore, these results suggest that apoE mechanisms for the risk of amyloidosis and AD are related to an interaction between apoE, aging, and the amount of amyloid burden.
Objective: To investigate the expressions of CD44, CD47, and c-met in ovarian clear cell carcinoma (0CCC) tissue and their correlations with clinical variables and prognosis. Methods: Immunohistochemical method was used to investigate the expressions of CD44, CD47, and c-met in tissues from 86 OCCC patients and the relationships of their expressions with the clinicopathological factors of OCCC were analyzed. Results: The expressions of CD44, CD47, and c-met were significantly high in OCCC tissues (90.7%, 91.9%, and 94. 2%, respectively). The strong positive expressions of CD44 and CD47 were significantly correlated with advanced International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stages, chemotherapeutic resistance, and poor prognosis (all P <0. 05), the strong positive expression of c-met was significantly correlated with chemotherapeutic resistance and poor prognosis (all P < 0. 05), whereas there was no correlation between the strong positive expressions of CD44, CD47, and c-met and the lymphatic node metastasis. COX survival analysis revealed that advanced International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stages and high expressions of CD44, CD47 and c-met were independent risk factors for poor prognosis (P <0. 05). There was a positive correlation between CD44 (or CD47) and c-met and between CD44 and CD47 (the Spearman correlation coefficient rswas 0.783, 0.776, and 0.835, respectively, all P< 0.01). Conclusions: The expressions of CD44, CD47, and c-met increase in OCCC tissues and are correlated with each other. High expressions of CD44, CD47, and c-met are independent factors for poor prognosis.
Agonistic antibodies directed against immunostimulatory receptors belonging to the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) superfamily are emerging as promising cancer immunotherapies. Several Fc engineering approaches discovered recently can augment the anti-tumor activities of TNFR antibodies by enhancing their agonistic activities and/or effector functions. In this study, we compared these approaches for their effects on an anti-OX40 antibody. Both S267E/L328F and V12 mutations facilitated enhanced binding to FcγRIIB and thus increased FcγRIIB cross-linking mediated agonist activity. However, both mutations abrogated the binding to FcγRIIIA and thereby decreasing the antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity activities. In contrast, the E345R mutation, which can promote antibody multimerization upon receptor binding, facilitated anti-OX40 antibody to have increased agonism by promoting the clustering of OX40 receptors without the dependence on FcγRIIB cross-linking. Nonetheless, cross-linking to FcγRIIB can lead to a further boost of the agonism of the anti-OX40 antibody with IgG1 Fc but not with the silent IgG2σ Fc. The antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and complement-dependent cytotoxicity activities of the anti-OX40 antibody with the E345R mutation were affected by the choice of IgG subtypes. However, there was little change in the antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis activity. In summary, different Fc engineering approaches can guide the design of engineered antibodies to OX40 and other TNFR with improved anti-tumor activity.
Serine-rich repeat glycoproteins (SRRPs) are conserved in Gram-positive bacteria. They are crucial for modulating biofilm formation and bacterial-host interactions. Glycosylation of SRRPs plays a pivotal role in the process; thus understanding the glycosyltransferases involved is key to identifying new therapeutic drug targets. The glycosylation of Fap1, an SRRP of Streptococcus parasanguinis, is mediated by a gene cluster consisting of six genes: gtf1, gtf2, gly, gtf3, dGT1, and galT2. Mature Fap1 glycan possesses the sequence of Rha1-3Glc1-(Glc1-3GlcNAc1)-2,6-Glc1-6GlcNAc. Gtf12, Gtf3, and dGT1 are responsible for the first four steps of the Fap1 glycosylation, catalyzing the transfer of GlcNAc, Glc, Glc, and GlcNAc residues to the protein backbone sequentially. The role of GalT2 and Gly in the Fap1 glycosylation is unknown. In the present study, we synthesized the fully modified Fap1 glycan in Escherichia coli by incorporating all six genes from the cluster. This study represents the first reconstitution of an exogenous stepwise O-glycosylation synthetic pathway in E. coli. In addition, we have determined that GalT2 mediates the fifth step of the Fap1 glycosylation by adding a rhamnose residue, and Gly mediates the final glycosylation step by transferring glucosyl residues. Furthermore, inactivation of each glycosyltransferase gene resulted in differentially impaired biofilms of S. parasanguinis, demonstrating the importance of Fap1 glycosylation in the biofilm formation. The Fap1 glycosylation system offers an excellent model to engineer glycans using different permutations of glycosyltransferases and to investigate biosynthetic pathways of SRRPs because SRRP genetic loci are highly conserved.
Antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) of Ebola virus (EBOV) infection has been demonstrated in vitro, raising concerns about the detrimental potential of some anti-EBOV antibodies. ADE has been described for many viruses and mostly depends on the cross-linking of virus-antibody complexes to cell surface Fc receptors, leading to enhanced infection. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon. Here we show that Fcγ-receptor IIa (FcγRIIa)-mediated intracellular signaling through Src family protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) is required for ADE of EBOV infection. We found that deletion of the FcγRIIa cytoplasmic tail abolished EBOV ADE due to decreased virus uptake into cellular endosomes. Furthermore, EBOV ADE, but not non-ADE infection, was significantly reduced by inhibition of the Src family protein PTK pathway, which was also found to be important to promote phagocytosis/macropinocytosis for viral uptake into endosomes. We further confirmed a significant increase of the Src phosphorylation mediated by ADE. These data suggest that antibody-EBOV complexes bound to the cell surface FcγRIIa activate the Src signaling pathway that leads to enhanced viral entry into cells, providing a novel perspective for the general understanding of ADE of virus infection.
Objective: To establish a real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay (qRT-PCR) for the rapid, sensitive, and specific detection of echinoderm microtubule associated protein like 4-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (EML4-ALK) fusion genes in non-small cell lung cancer. Methods: The specific primers for the four variants of EML4-ALK fusion genes (VI, V2, V3a, and V3b) and Taqman fluorescence probes for the detection of the target sequences were carefully designed by the Primer Premier 5. 0 software. Then, using pseudovirus containing EML4-ALK fusion genes variants (VI, V2, V3a, and V3b) as the study objects, we further analyzed the lower limit, sensitivity, and specificity of this method. Finally, 50 clinical samples, including 3 ALK-fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) positive specimens, were collected and used to detect EML4-ALK fusion genes using this method. Results: The lower limit of this method for the detection of EML4-ALK fusion genes was 10 copies/μl if no interference of background RNA existed. Regarding the method' s sensitivity, the detection resolution was as high as 1% and 0. 5% in the background of 500 and 5000 copies/μl wild-type ALK gene, respectively. Regarding the method' s specificity, no non-specific amplification was found when it was used to detect EML4-ALK fusion genes in leukocyte and plasma RNA samples from healthy volunteers. Among the 50 clinical samples, 47 ALK-FISH negative samples were also negative. Among 3 ALK-FISH positive samples, 2 cases were detected positive using this method, but another was not detected because of the failure of RNA extraction. Conclusion: The proposed qRT-PCR assay for the detection of EML4-ALK fusion genes is rapid, simple, sensitive, and specific, which is deserved to be validated and widely used in clinical settings.
However, to date, no study has evaluated the effects of anhedonia on these parameters. The aim of the study was to evaluate the relationship between anhedonia, alexithymia, impulsivity, suicidal ideation, recent suicide attempt, C-reactive protein (CRP) and lipid levels in patients with mood or anxiety disorders. One hundred and twenty-two inpatients with mood or anxiety disorders were recruited. Alexithymia and impulsivity were rated by the 20-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20) and the Barratt impulsivity scale (BIS-10), respectively. Anhedonia and depression were rated by the Temporal Experience Pleasure Scale (TEPS) and the Beck Depression inventory (BDI-II). The TEPS contained two subscales rating anticipatory and consummatory anhedonia. From the BDI-II an anhedonia subscale was extracted rating anhedonia-state. Trait consummatory anhedonia and state anhedonia were associated with low levels of total cholesterol or HDL and low levels of triglycerides respectively. Trait anticipatory anhedonia and state anhedonia were associated with suicidal ideations. The difficulty of identifying feelings component of alexithymia was associated with low levels of total cholesterol and LDL. A high level of suicidal ideation was associated with low levels of HDL. Higher levels of CRP were found in inpatients having recently attempted suicide compared with inpatients who had not attempted suicide. In mood and anxiety disorders, anhedonia and the “difficulty of identifying feelings” component of alexithymia (which has previously been found to be associated with suicide risk) could explain the relationship between serum lipid levels and higher suicide risk.
Previously, we showed that levels of sphingosine-1 phosphate receptor 3 (S1PR3) are increased in a panel of cultured human lung adenocarcinoma cell lines, and that S1PR3-mediated signaling pathways regulate proliferation, soft agar growth, and invasion of human lung adenocarcinoma cells in vitro. In the present study, we examine S1PR3 levels in human lung adenocarcinoma specimens. cDNA array and tumor microarray analysis shows that mRNA and protein levels of S1PR3 are significantly increased in human lung adenocarcinomas when compared with normal lung epithelial cells. Promoter analysis shows 16 candidate SMAD3 binding sites in the promoter region of S1PR3. ChIP indicates that TGF-β treatment stimulates the binding of SMAD3 to the promoter region of S1PR3. Luciferase reporter assay demonstrates that SMAD3 transactivates S1PR3 promoter. TGF-β stimulation or ectopic expression of TGF-β up-regulates S1PR3 levels in vitro and ex vivo. Pharmacologic inhibition of TGF-β receptor or SMAD3 abrogates the TGF-β-stimulated S1PR3 up-regulation. Moreover, S1PR3 knockdown dramatically inhibits tumor growth and lung metastasis, whereas ectopic expression of S1PR3 promotes the growth of human lung adenocarcinoma cells in animals. Pharmacological inhibition of S1PR3 profoundly inhibits the growth of lung carcinoma in mice. Our studies suggest that levels of S1PR3 are up-regulated in human lung adenocarcinomas, at least in part due to the TGF-β/SMAD3 signaling axis. Furthermore, S1PR3 activity promotes the progression of human lung adenocarcinomas. Therefore, S1PR3 may represent a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of deadly lung adenocarcinomas.
In view of the potential significance of this finding, we extended this study to a larger cohort using GWAS data from the Psychiatric Genetic Consortium (PGC). Meta-analysis was performed for the only two SLC30A3 SNP variants (rs11126936 and rs11126929) available in most PGC cohorts. A significant association with schizophrenia was found for both variants. When meta-analysis was performed in male and female case-control subsets, an increased and gender-specific effect of allele on risk of disease was found in females for both SNPs with no significant effect in males, which was further associated with a gender-specific effect on gene expression. In conclusion, using a large European-wide sample we were able to replicate the gender-specific association previously found in a UK cohort.
Mechanical resonators realized on the nanoscale by now offer applications in mass sensing of biomolecules with extraordinary sensitivity. The general idea is that perfect mechanical mass sensors should be of extremely small size to achieve zepto- or yoctogram sensitivity in weighing single molecules similar to a classical scale. However, the small effective size and long response time for weighing biomolecules with a cantilever restricts their usefulness as a high-throughput method. Commercial mass spectrometry (MS), on the other hand, such as electrospray ionization and matrix-assisted laser desorption and ionization (MALDI) time of flight (TOF) and their charge-amplifying detectors are the gold standards to which nanomechanical resonators have to live up to. These two methods rely on the ionization and acceleration of biomolecules and the following ion detection after a mass selection step, such as TOF. The principle we describe here for ion detection is based on the conversion of kinetic energy of the biomolecules into thermal excitation of chemical vapor deposition diamond nanomembranes via phonons followed by phonon-mediated detection via field emission of thermally emitted electrons. We fabricate ultrathin diamond membranes with large lateral dimensions for MALDI TOF MS of high-mass proteins. These diamond membranes are realized by straightforward etching methods based on semiconductor processing. With a minimal thickness of 100 nm and cross sections of up to 400×400 μm2, the membranes offer extreme aspect ratios. Ion detection is demonstrated in MALDI TOF analysis over a broad range from insulin to albumin. The resulting data in detection show much enhanced resolution as compared to existing detectors, which can offer better sensitivity and overall performance in resolving protein masses.
This study aimed to assess the characteristics of skin gelatin of different freshwater fish. The subjected species was snakehead murrel (Channa striata), pangas catfish (Pangasius pangasius), walking catfish (Clarias batrachus), red snakehead (Channa micropeltes) of which skin gelatin was extracted in citric acid. The fish skin gelatin was tested for proximate composition (water, protein, ash and fat content), gel strength, viscosity, gelling temperature, melting temperature, pH, and instrumental color, and the gelatin tissue observed under a Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM). The gelatin obtained from the fish skin used showed differences in yield of gelatin and physico-chemical characteristics (proximate composition, color, pH, gelling temperature) and rheological properties (gel strength, viscosity, melting temperature). The skin gelatin of P. pangasius had higher values of gel strength, viscosity, gelling temperature, color, water content, protein and ash (P<0.05) than that of other studied species in the present study. It had also higher gel strength, viscosity, gelling temperature, melting temperature, water content, protein level, ash, and fat than the other species, but lower than those of commercial gelatin. Micrograph Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) indicated that the skin gelatin structure of P. pangasius had rather thick strand with small voids and clear and uniform tissue. As conclusion, the skin gelatin of the four freshwater fish species used in this study is potential to be new alternative source of gelatin as gel former, elmusifier, stabilizer and thickener.
The functionality of stem cells is tightly regulated by cues from the niche, comprising both intrinsic and extrinsic cell signals. Besides chemical and growth factors, biophysical signals are important components of extrinsic signals that dictate the stem cell properties. The materials used in the fabrication of scaffolds provide the chemical cues whereas the shape of the scaffolds provides the biophysical cues. The effect of the chemical composition of the scaffolds on stem cell fate is well researched. Biophysical signals such as nanotopography, mechanical forces, stiffness of the matrix, and roughness of the biomaterial influence the fate of stem cells. However, not much is known about their role in signaling crosstalk, stem cell maintenance, and directed differentiation. Among the various techniques for scaffold design, nanotechnology has special significance. The role of nanoscale topography in scaffold design for the regulation of stem cell behavior has gained importance in regenerative medicine. Nanotechnology allows manipulation of highly advanced surfaces/scaffolds for optimal regulation of cellular behavior. Techniques such as electrospinning, soft lithography, microfluidics, carbon nanotubes, and nanostructured hydrogel are described in this review, along with their potential usage in regenerative medicine. We have also provided a brief insight into the potential signaling crosstalk that is triggered by nanomaterials that dictate a specific outcome of stem cells. This concise review compiles recent developments in nanoscale architecture and its importance in directing stem cell differentiation for prospective therapeutic applications.
In the past, endothelium was thought to be only a mechanical barrier. Today, endothelium is known to be a tissue regulating vascular tone, cell growth and the interaction between the leukocytes, thrombocytes and the vessel wall. It also synthesizes growth factors and thrombo-regulatory molecules and responds to physical and chemical signals. Even though the term “endothelial dysfunction” is generally used for deterioration of endothelium-dependent vasodilatation; the term also includes the abnormalities between endothelium and leukocytes, thrombocytes and regulatory molecules and conditions resulting in aberrant endothelium activation. Healthy endothelium is essential for cardiovascular control. Thus, it plays an important role in pathogenesis of many diseases and cardiovascular problems such as atherosclerosis, systemic and pulmonary hypertension, cardiomyopathies and vasculitides. The aim of this chapter is to explain endothelial dysfunction and the circulating molecules of endothelial cells as they become potential targets of therapeutic approach for hypertension. This chapter reviews the roles of endothelial dysfunction in hypertension by addressing (1) the nature of endothelial function, (2) mechanisms of endothelial dysfunction and its relationship with the diseases (3) also endothelial function testing (4) the role of endothelial dysfunction and hypertension and (4) the effects of antihypertensive therapeutic options on the endothelial dysfunction. In addition to these, the role of endothelial dysfunction in white coat hypertension has been discussed. The key connections between hypertension and endothelial dysfunction are vitally important for future studies to permit new interventions to be designed and released.
Objective: To explore the expressions of inhibitors of DNA binding-1 (Id-1) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in colorectal carcinoma tissues and its correlation with microvessel density (MVD). Methods: The expressions of Id-1 and MMP-9 as well as CD34-labelled MVD in colorectal adenocarcinoma tissues (n = 50) and normal adjacent tissues (n = 50) were examined by immunohistochemistry. Results: The positive expressions of Id-1 and MMP-9 were seen in 72. 00% (36/50) and 78. 00% (39/50) of colorectal adenocarcinoma tissues, which were significantly higher than those [24. 00% (12/50) and 28. 00% (14/50)] in normal adjacent tissues (P =0. 000). The MVD value (17. 22 ±2. 08) in colorectal adenocarcinoma tissues was significantly higher than that (5. 36 ±2. 17) in normal adjacent tissues (P =0. 000). The expressions of Id-1 and MMP-9 and MVD were significantly correlated with serosa invasion, TNM stage, carcinoembryonic antigen (+), lymph node metastasis, vascular invasion, and liver metastasis (all P <0. 05) but not with the patient' s age, gender, tumor size, and differentiation degree (all P >0. 05). The MVD value with Id-1 and MMP-9 positive expression were significantly higher than those with Id-1 and MMP-9 negative expression (all P = 0. 000). The expression of Id-1 in colorectal adenocarcinoma tissues showed significantly positive correlation with that of MMP-9 (r =0.429, P= 0.000). Cox multivariate analysis showed that Id-1 and MMP-9 expressions were independent prognostic factors for colorectal carcinoma. Conclusions: The high expressions of Id-1 and MMP-9 have high correlations with the development and progression of colorectal adenocarcinoma and have positive correlation with MVD. Both of them may be involved in the microvascular generation and the invasion and hematogenous metastasis of colorectal carcinoma.
Oral delivery is the most fascinating route for interminable drug remedy. However, the intestinal absorption of alendronate (ALN), a bisphosphonate drug after oral administration is very poor. Absorption enhancers, which help to achieve the efficiency-safety balance, are considered one of the most promising agents for the improvement the intestinal absorption of drugs. In the current study, we focused on using sucrose fatty acid esters (SEs) as promising absorption enhancers to enhance the intestinal absorption of alendronate using an in situ closed-loop method in rats. The intestinal absorption of alendronate was significantly enhanced in the presence of SEs, especially L-1695. In addition, no considerable increase was observed in the activity of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) or in protein release from the intestinal epithelium in the presence of sugar esters at concentrations equivalent to or lower than 1.0% (w/v), suggesting that these compounds are safe. Furthermore, mechanistic studies revealed increased membrane fluidity and loosening of the tight junctions (TJs) might be the underlying mechanism by which SEs improve the intestinal intake of alendronate, via transcellular and paracellular routes, respectively. These findings suggest that SEs are effective absorption enhancers for improving the intestinal absorption of alendronate, without causing serious damage to the enteric epithelium.
Nervous system function requires intracellular transport of channels, receptors, mRNAs, and other cargo throughout complex neuronal morphologies. Local signals such as synaptic input can regulate cargo trafficking, motivating the leading conceptual model of neuron-wide transport, sometimes called the ‘sushi-belt model’ (Doyle and Kiebler, 2011). Current theories and experiments are based on this model, yet its predictions are not rigorously understood. We formalized the sushi belt model mathematically, and show that it can achieve arbitrarily complex spatial distributions of cargo in reconstructed morphologies. However, the model also predicts an unavoidable, morphology dependent tradeoff between speed, precision and metabolic efficiency of cargo transport. With experimental estimates of trafficking kinetics, the model predicts delays of many hours or days for modestly accurate and efficient cargo delivery throughout a dendritic tree. These findings challenge current understanding of the efficacy of nucleus-to-synapse trafficking and may explain the prevalence of local biosynthesis in neurons.
Rabies virus kills tens of thousands of people globally each year, especially in resource-limited countries. Yet, there are genetically- and antigenically-related lyssaviruses, all capable of causing the disease rabies, circulating globally among bats without causing conspicuous disease outbreaks. The species richness and greater genetic diversity of African lyssaviruses, along with the lack of antibody cross-reactivity among them, has led to the hypothesis that Africa is the origin of lyssaviruses. This hypothesis was tested using a probabilistic phylogeographical approach. The nucleoprotein gene sequences from 153 representatives of 16 lyssavirus species, collected between 1956 and 2015, were used to develop a phylogenetic tree which incorporated relevant geographic and temporal data relating to the viruses. In addition, complete genome sequences from all 16 (putative) species were analysed. The most probable ancestral distribution for the internal nodes was inferred using three different approaches and was confirmed by analysis of complete genomes. These results support a Palearctic origin for lyssaviruses (posterior probability = 0.85), challenging the ‘out of Africa’ hypothesis, and suggest three independent transmission events to the Afrotropical region, representing the three phylogroups that form the three major lyssavirus clades.
Tuberculosis remains a major global health problem caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Cytochrome P450 enzymes such as CYP130 have an intimate involvement in pathogenesis of tuberculosis. It was demonstrated that azole compounds such as econazole and clotrimazole display inhibitory potential against the latent and multidrug-resistant forms of tuberculosis. Here we investigate the specific interactions between CYP130 and econazole as well as our proposed azole ligands at atomic and electronic levels, using ab initio molecular simulations. The specific interactions between CYP130 and ligand are investigated by ab initio fragment molecular orbital calculations at an electronic level, in order to highlight which residues of CYP130 and which parts of ligand are important for the binding between CYP130 and ligand. Based on the results, we attempt to propose novel potent inhibitors that have a strong binding affinity to CYP130.
The application of small interfering RNA (siRNA) for specific gene inhibition is a promising strategy in gene therapy treatments. The efficient cellular delivery of therapeutic siRNA is a critical step in RNA interference (RNAi) application. Highly efficient siRNA carriers should be developed for specific cellular uptake, stable RNA-complexes formation and intracellular RNA release. To study these features, we evaluated modular peptide carriers bearing CXCR4 targeting ligand for their ability to condense siRNA, facilitate endosomal escape and VEGFA gene silencing in CXCR4-expressing endothelial and glioblastoma cells. Peptide carriers were shown to condense and protect siRNA from RNAse degradation. Various N/P ratios were used for physicochemical characterization to optimize siRNA/peptide complexes for in vitro studies. On average, cytotoxicity of siRNA-polyplexes depended on cell type and was not higher than that of PEI/siRNA complexes. VEGFA gene knockdown was significantly improved with CXCR4-targeted carriers in contrast to nontargeted peptides. siRNA delivery by means of ligandconjugated carriers resulted in 2.5–3-fold decrease of VEGF expression in glioblastoma cells and in 1.5–2-fold decrease of VEGF expression in endothelial cells. Delivery of siRNA/peptide complexes resulted in 2–6- fold decrease in VEGF protein yield and in significant inhibition of endothelial cells migration. The study shows that implication of peptide carriers modified with CXCR4 ligand is a promising approach to develop targeted siRNA delivery system into CXCR4-expressing cancer and endothelial cells.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play an important role in the development of inflammatory bowel diseases. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) has a great therapeutic potential by scavenging superoxide that is one of ROS; however, in vivo application is limited especially when it is orally administered. SOD is easily degraded in vivo by the harsh conditions of gastrointestinal tract. Here, we design a zein-alginate based oral drug delivery system that protects SOD from the harsh conditions of gastrointestinal tract and releases it in the environment of the small intestine. SOD is encapsulated in zein-alginate nanoparticles (ZAN) via a phase separation method. We demonstrate that ZAN protect SOD from the harsh conditions of the stomach or small intestine condition. ZAN (200:40) at the weight ratio of 200 mg zein to 40 mg of alginate releases SOD in a pH dependent manner, and it releases 90.8 ± 1.2% of encapsulated SOD at pH 7.4 in 2 h, while only 11.4 ± 0.4% of SOD was released at pH 1.3. The encapsulation efficiency of SOD in ZAN (200:40) was 62.1 ± 2.0%. SOD in ZAN (200:40) reduced the intracellular ROS level and it saved 88.9 ± 7.5% of Caco-2 cells from the toxic superoxide in 4 hours. Based on the results, zein-alginate based oral drug delivery systems will have numerous applications to drugs that are easily degradable in the harsh conditions of gastrointestinal tract.
Traffic-related air pollution is a major contributor to global air pollution, and diesel exhaust (DE) is its most important component. DE contains more than 40 toxic air pollutants and is a major constituent of ambient particulate matter (PM), particularly of ultrafine-PM. Limited information suggests that exposure to DE may cause oxidative stress and neuroinflammation in the CNS. We hypothesized that males may be more susceptible than females to DE neurotoxicity, because of a lower level of expression of paraoxonase 2 (PON2), an intracellular anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory enzyme. Acute exposure of C57BL/6 mice to DE (250–300 μg/m3 for 6 h) caused significant increases in lipid peroxidation and of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-3, IL-6, TNF-α) in various brain regions (particularly olfactory bulb and hippocampus). In a number of cases the observed effects were more pronounced in male than in female mice. DE exposure also caused microglia activation, as measured by increased Iba1 (ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1) expression, and of TSPO (translocator protein) binding. Mice heterozygotes for the modifier subunit of glutamate cysteine ligase (the limiting enzyme in glutathione biosynthesis; Gclm+/− mice) appeared to be significantly more susceptible to DE-induced neuroinflammation than wild type mice. These findings indicate that acute exposure to DE causes neuroinflammation and oxidative stress in brain, and suggest that sex and genetic background may play important roles in modulating susceptibility to DE neurotoxicity.
The present study evaluated the ameliorative potentials of saponins from Helianthus annuus roots on hepatoproductive and some kidney function indices on alloxan-induced diabetes model of rats. Diabetes was induced in rats by a single intraperitoneal injection of alloxan (65 mg/kg body weight) and the animals were orally treated with 100, 200, 300 and 150 mg/kg body weight (bw) of saponins from Helianthus annuus roots once daily for three weeks. At the end of the intervention, diabetic untreated animals showed significantly higher alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST), serum urea, direct bilirubin and creatinine and lower serum total protein, albumin compared to the normal animals. Histopathological examination of their pancreas revealed corresponding pathological changes in the islets and β-cells. These alterations were reverted to near-normal after the treatment of saponins from Helianthus annuus roots at 100, 200, 300 and 500 mg/kg bw when, the effects were more pronounced at 500 mg/kg bw compared to the 100 mg/kg bw treated group. It can be concluded that administration of saponins from Helianthus annuus root to diabetic rats did not have any adverse effect on the liver and kidney functions indices in rats, instead it ameliorates the adverse effects of diabetes complications.
To develop effective and safe vaccines with reduced dose of antigen and adjuvant, intelligent delivery systems are required. Many delivery systems have been developed to enhance the biological activity of cytosine-phosphorothioate-guanine oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG ODN) as both immunotherapeutic agents and vaccine adjuvants. In this study we designed a novel CpG ODN delivery system based on single-walled carbon nanotube (SWCNT) functionalized with polyethylenimine (PEI) and alkylcarboxylated PEI (AL-PEI). The physicochemical characteristics, cytotoxicity and cellular uptake studies of these carriers were performed. All carriers were conjugated with CpG ODN followed by co-delivery with ovalbumin (OVA) encapsulated into poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanospheres (PLGA NSs) to enhance the induction of immune responses. The effect of these formulations on antibody (IgG1, IgG2a) and cytokine (IL-1β, IFN-γ, IL-4) production was evaluated in an in vivo experiment. The results showed that all nano-adjuvant formulations had a strong influence in up-regulation of IFN-γ and IL-4 in parallel with high IgG1-IgG2a isotype antibody titers in mice. In particular, SWCNT-AL-PEI nano-adjuvant formulation generated a balanced Th1 and Th2 immune response with more biased toward Th1 response without exhibiting any inflammatory and toxic effects. Therefore this nano-adjuvant formulation could be used as an efficient prophylactic immune responses agent.
N-Acylethanolamines (NAEs) are bioactive fatty acid derivatives present in trace amounts in many eukaryotes. Although NAEs have signaling and physiological roles in animals, little is known about their metabolic fate in plants. Our previous microarray analyses showed that inhibition of Arabidopsis thaliana seedling growth by exogenous N-lauroylethanolamine (NAE 12:0) was accompanied by the differential expression of multiple genes encoding small molecule-modifying enzymes. We focused on the gene At5g39050, which encodes a phenolic glucoside malonyltransferase 1 (PMAT1), to better understand the biological significance of NAE 12:0-induced gene expression changes. PMAT1 expression was induced 3-5-fold by exogenous NAE 12:0. PMAT1 knockouts (pmat1) had reduced sensitivity to the growth-inhibitory effects of NAE 12:0 compared with wild type leading to the hypothesis that PMAT1 might be a previously uncharacterized regulator of NAE metabolism in plants. To test this hypothesis, metabolic profiling of wild-type and pmat1 seedlings treated with NAE 12:0 was conducted. Wild-type seedlings treated with NAE 12:0 accumulated glucosylated and malonylated forms of this NAE species, and structures were confirmed using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. By contrast, only the peak corresponding to NAE 12:0-glucoside was detected in pmat1. Recombinant PMAT1 catalyzed the reaction converting NAE 12:0-glucoside to NAE 12:0-mono- or -dimalonylglucosides providing direct evidence that this enzyme is involved in NAE 12:0-glucose malonylation. Taken together, our results indicate that glucosylation of NAE 12:0 by a yet to be determined glucosyltransferase and its subsequent malonylation by PMAT1 could represent a mechanism for modulating the biological activities of NAEs in plants.
Background: Receptor tyrosine kinase, c-Kit (CD117) plays a pivotal role in the maintenance and expansion of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs). Additionally, over-expression and/or mutational activation of c-Kit have been implicated in numerous malignant diseases including acute myeloid leukemia. However, the translational regulation of c-Kit expression remains largely unknown. Methods and results: We demonstrated that loss of Pim1 led to specific down-regulation of c-Kit expression in HSPCs of Pim1/ mice and Pim1/2/3/ triple knockout (TKO) mice, and resulted in attenuated ERK and STAT3 signaling in response to stimulation with stem cell factor. Transduction of c-Kit restored the defects in colony forming capacity seen in HSPCs from Pim1/ and TKO mice. Pharmacologic inhibition and genetic modification studies using human megakaryoblastic leukemia cells confirmed the regulation of c-Kit expression by Pim1 kinase: i.e., Pim1-specific shRNA knockdown down-regulated the expression of c-Kit whereas overexpression of Pim1 up-regulated the expression of c-Kit. Mechanistically, inhibition or knockout of Pim1 kinase did not affect the transcription of c-Kit gene. Pim1 kinase enhanced c-Kit 35S methionine labeling and increased the incorporation of c-Kit mRNAs into the polysomes and monosomes, demonstrating that Pim1 kinase regulates c-Kit expression at the translational level. Conclusions: Our study provides the first evidence that Pim1 regulates c-Kit gene translation and has important implications in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and cancer treatment.
The 2H-pyran-2-one gibepyrone A and its oxidized derivatives gibepyrones B-F have been isolated from the rice pathogenic fungus Fusarium fujikuroi already more than 20 years ago. However, these products have not been linked to the respective biosynthetic genes, and therefore, their biosynthesis has not yet been analyzed on a molecular level. Feeding experiments with isotopically labeled precursors clearly supported a polyketide origin for the formal monoterpenoid gibepyrone A, whereas the terpenoid pathway could be excluded. Targeted gene deletion verified that the F. fujikuroi polyketide synthase PKS13, designated Gpy1, is responsible for gibepyrone A biosynthesis. Next to Gpy1, the ATP-binding cassette transporter Gpy2 is encoded by the gibepyrone gene cluster. Gpy2 was shown to have only a minor impact on the actual efflux of gibepyrone A out of the cell. Instead, we obtained evidence that Gpy2 is involved in gene regulation as it represses GPY1 gene expression. Thus, GPY1 was up-regulated and gibepyrone A production was enhanced both extra- and intracellularly in Δgpy2 mutants. Furthermore, expression of GPY genes is strictly repressed by members of the fungus-specific velvet complex, Vel1, Vel2, and Lae1, whereas Sge1, a major regulator of secondary metabolism in F. fujikuroi, affects gibepyrone biosynthesis in a positive manner. The gibepyrone A derivatives gibepyrones B and D were shown to be produced by cluster-independent P450 monooxygenases, probably to protect the fungus from the toxic product. In contrast, the formation of gibepyrones E and F from gibepyrone A is a spontaneous process and independent of enzymatic activity.
A large amount of NO is generated through the inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) pathway from the vascular adventitia in various vascular diseases. However, it is currently not fully understood how the iNOS signaling pathway is activated. In the present study, this question was addressed in the context of adventitial cellular interactions. A rat model of acute hypertension in the contralateral carotid arteries was established through transverse aortic constriction (TAC) surgery. In this model, activated macrophages were found surrounded by a large quantity of iNOS-expressing adventitial fibroblasts (AFs), suggesting a possible causal relationship between macrophages and iNOS activation of the neighboring AFs. In an in vitro model, a macrophage-like cell line RAW 264.7 was first activated by LPS treatment. The supernatant was then harvested and applied to treat primary rat AFs. iNOS in AFs was activated robustly by the supernatant treatment but not by LPS itself. Treating AFs with interleukin-1β (IL-1β) also activated iNOS signaling, suggesting that the IL-1β pathway might be a possible mediator. As a consequence of the iNOS activation, total protein nitration and S-nitrosylation significantly increased in those AFs. Additionally, increased deposition of type I and type III collagens was observed in both in vitro and in vivo models. The collagen deposition was partially restored by an iNOS inhibitor, 1400 W. These findings highlight the importance of iNOS signaling during vascular inflammation, and advance our understanding of its activation through a cellular interaction perspective.
Objective To investigate the effect of TAK-242, an antagonist for Toll-like receptor 4, against myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury (I/R) in C57BL/6 mice along with the underlying mechanism. Methods C57BL/6 Mice (n=36)were randomized into three groups: sham group, I (30 min)/R 24 h model group and I/R+TAK-242 (3 mg/kg) treatment group. At 24 h after reperfusion, cardiac function and myocardial infarct size were evaluated with echocardiography and triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC), myocardial pathological pattern in mice was detected by HE staining, the mRNA and protein levels of TLR4 were determined by real time PCR and Western blot respectively, and the serum levels of IL- 6, TNF- α, IL- 10 and HMGB1 were detected by ELISA. Results Our results showed that left ventricular systolic diameters (LVID) were shortened (P<0.01), left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and left ventricular short axis shortening fraction (LVFS) were both decreased significantly (P<0.01)in following I/R mice. Myocardial infarction size was large and myocardial inflammatory cell infiltration was severe in I/R mice. The mRNA and protein levels of TLR4 were elevated(P<0.01), the serum levels of IL-6, TNF-α, IL-10 and HMGB1 in I/R mice were significantly increased compared with the sham group (P<0.01). We found that TAK-242 significantly extended LVID (P<0.05), increased LVEF and LVFS (P<0.05), reduced myocardial infarction and improved myocardial inflammatory cell infiltration, inhibited the mRNA and protein levels of TLR4 (P<0.05), down-regulated the expression of IL-6 and TNF-α (P<0.01), and up-regulated IL-10 and HMGB1 compared with I/R group (P<0. 01). Conclusion Treatment with TAK-242 can significantly reduce myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury partly via regulating inflammation.
Plasma BDNF levels were positively correlated with the magnitude of tobacco consumption (current number of cigarettes/day and number of packs/year). Accordingly, current tobacco users had significantly higher plasma BDNF levels than non-users. In further studies of MDD, peripheral measures of BDNF should take into account tobacco use.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an incurable, devastating neurodegenerative disease with a known genetic background and autosomally dominant inheritance pattern. HTT gene mutation (mHTT) is associated with polymorphic fragment elongation above 35 repeats of the CAG triplet. The mHTT product is an altered protein with a poly-Q elongated fragment, with the highest expression determined in the central nervous system (CNS) and with differentiated expression outside the CNS. A drastic loss of striatal and deeper layers of the cerebral cortex neurons was determined in the CNS, but muscle and body weight mass loss with dysfunction of many organs was also observed. HD symptoms include neurological disturbances, such as choreal movements with dystonia, speech and swallowing impairments, and additionally a variety of psychiatric and behavioral symptoms with cognitive decline have been described. They are the result of disturbances of several cellular pathways related to signal transmission, mitochondrial dysfunction and energy metabolism impairment shown by gene and protein expression and alteration of their functions. Impairment of energy processes demonstrated by a decrease of ATP production and increase of oxidative stress markers was determined in- and outside of the CNS in glycolysis, the Krebs cycle and the electron transport chain. A correlation between the increase of energy metabolism impairment level and the increase in number of CAG repeats in HTT has often been described. The energy metabolism study is an initial stage of sensitive biomarkers and a new therapeutic investigative option for early application in order to inhibit pathological processes in HD. Identification of pathological changes outside the CNS requires a reevaluation of diagnostic and therapeutic rules in HD.
This study aimed to build an innovative system to deliver a systemic small interfering RNA (siRNA) treatment for rheumatoid arthritis. We combined arginine-histidine-cysteine based oligopeptide-modified polymer micelles with siRNA targeting the nuclear factor κB subunit, RelA (siRelA). This is a key molecule in the control of inflammation. We tested the cellular uptake of siRNA and its effects on inflammatory cytokine levels in vitro using synoviocytes, and siRNA distribution and therapeutic effects in vivo in mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). These studies showed that arginine-histidine based oligopeptide modified micelles produced effective cellular siRNA uptake and suppressed inflammatory cytokine levels in synoviocytes. In vivo, these micelles produced marked accumulation of siRNAs in arthritic paws in CIA mice, with much less accumulation in healthy mice. The siRelA-polymer micelle complexes also produced more effective suppression of RelA mRNA expression and inflammatory cytokine levels in the arthritic paws of CIA mice and reduced their clinical symptom scores and paw thickness.
The current study aimed to investigate the relationship between the COMT val158met polymorphism and these three endophenotypes. One hundred four SCZ patients (DSM-IV-R criteria) and 89 healthy controls were included in this study. P50 auditory-evoked potential inhibition, antisaccade paradigm and SPEM were analyzed. All individuals were genotyped for the COMT val158met. SCZ patients showed a higher rate of deficits measured by the SPEM, antisaccade and P50 inhibition paradigms without association with COMT val158met. However, in our control group, we have found an association between the Val polymorphism and the smoking status. More importantly, we have found a higher accuracy of saccades during the predictive pursuit task associated to the Met polymorphism in controls but not in SCZ patients who were receiving antidopaminergic medications. This result is in line with the hypothesis of the relationship between the Met polymorphism of the COMT gene, a higher level of dopamine in the prefrontal cortex and the role of the fronto-cerebellar loop in smooth predictive pursuit.
Antipsychotic medications were shown to stimulate GDNF secretion from C6 glioma cells. The aims of this study were to investigate the serum concentration of GDNF, to monitor the therapeutic effect of atypical antipsychotics related to GDNF levels in drug-free schizophrenia patients, and to examine these levels in relation to psychotic symptoms. We recruited 138 drug-free schizophrenic patients and compared them with 77 matched healthy subjects. All patients were treated with atypical antipsychotic monotherapy. GDNF serum levels and psychiatric symptoms were assessed at baseline and after 2, 4, 6 and 8 weeks. GDNF levels gradually increased accompanied by a reduction in psychiatric symptoms during antipsychotic therapy. The levels of GDNF in responders were significantly increased after 8 weeks of treatment, however, no significant change was found in non-responders. Furthermore, a negative association between GDNF levels following pharmacotherapy and disease duration in schizophrenic subjects could be observed. The present study suggests that GDNF may be involved in the etiology of schizophrenia and pharmacological treatment.
Chimeric polymers are known as suitable carriers for gene delivery. Certain properties are critical for a polymer to be used as a gene delivery vector. A new polymer was designed for the targeted delivery of genes into breast cancer cell lines, based on MPG peptide. It is composed of different functional domains, including HIV gp41, nuclear localization sequence of SV40 T-antigen, two C-terminus repeats of histone H1, and the scFv of anti-HER2 antibody. The results demonstrated that the vector can effectively condense plasmid DNA into nanoparticles with an average size of 250 nm. Moreover, fusion of the scFv portion to the carrier brought about the specific recognition of HER2. Overall, the transfection efficiency of the vector demonstrated that it could deliver the desired gene into BT-474 HER2-positive breast cancer cells.
The IL-2/IL-2Ralpha (CD25) axis is of central importance for the interplay of effector and regulatory T cells. Nevertheless, the question how different antigen loads are translated into appropriate IL-2 production to ensure adequate responses against pathogens remains largely unexplored. Here we find that at single cell level, IL-2 is binary (digital) and CD25 is graded expressed whereas at population level both parameters show graded expression correlating with the antigen amount. Combining in vivo data with a mathematical model we demonstrate that only this binary IL-2 expression ensures a wide linear antigen response range for Teff and Treg cells under real spatiotemporal conditions. Furthermore, at low antigen concentrations binary IL-2 expression safeguards by its spatial distribution selective STAT5 activation only of closely adjacent Treg cells regardless of their antigen specificity. These data show that the mode of IL-2 secretion is critical to tailor the adaptive immune response to the antigen amount.
Differentiated cells can be reprogrammed by transcription factors, and these factors that are responsible for successful reprogramming need to be further identified. Here, we show that the neuronal repressor RE1-silencing transcription factor (REST) is rich in porcine oocytes and requires for nuclear transfer (NT)-mediated reprogramming through inhibiting TGFβ signaling pathway. REST was dramatically degraded after oocyte activation, but the residual REST was incorporated into the transferred donor nuclei during reprogramming in NT embryos. Inhibition of REST function in oocytes compromised the development of NT embryos but not that of IVF and PA embryos. Bioinformation analysis of putative targets of REST indicated that REST might function on reprogramming in NT embryos by inhibiting TGFβ pathway. Further results showed that the developmental failure of REST-inhibited NT embryos could be rescued by treatment of SB431542, an inhibitor of TGFβ pathway. Thus, REST is a newly discovered transcription factor that is required for NT-mediated nuclear reprogramming.
Chitosan-coated human serum albumin nanoparticles were functionalized by MUC1 aptamer to obtain a selective drug carrier toward cancers overexpressing MUC1. The negative charges of albumin nanoparticles were shifted to positive charges by surface modification with chitosan, and MUC1 was conjugated through an acrylate spacer. The cytotoxicity of targeted nanoparticles was significantly more than non-aptamer nanoparticles, and also the chitosan-coated nanoparticles had more cytotoxic effects than the negatively charged albumin nanoparticles. The IC50 of targeted nanoparticles was 28 and 26% of free paclitaxel in MCF7 and T47D cells at 48 h, respectively. Confocal laser scanning electron microscopy showed that aptamer conjugation and positive charge increase the cellular uptake. 66% of paclitaxel was released within 32 h, but 100% of drug was released at pH = 5.5 (similar cancer cells). The paclitaxel plasma amount was at a good level of 17.6% at 2 h for increasing the chance of cellular uptake.
The current study investigated the physicochemical composition, mineral analysis, antibacterial and antifungal activity of Citrus aurantium (sour orange), Citrus sinensis (sweet orange), Citrus paradisi (grapefruit) and Citrus limon (lemon) peel waste. The proximate composition was determined according to the described standardized methods. The fiber content was 18.00 ± 2% in sweet orange, protein content was 7.20 ± 0.5% in grapefruit and total sugar was 3.1 ± 0.10% in C. aurantium (sour orange). The mineral analysis was carried out by atomic absorption spectroscopy and flame photometry. Increased levels of Na (21750 ± 20 ppm) and Fe (38.0 ± 2 ppm) were found in C. aurantium (sour orange). Similarly, higher levels of K (218000 ± 60 ppm), Pb (3.0 ± 01 ppm), Ag (5 ± 01 ppm), Zn (10.0 ± 01 ppm) and Cr (20 ± 01 ppm) were reported in C. limon (lemon). Likewise, increased levels of Ca (11623 ± 10 ppm) and Mg (1508 ± 5 ppm) were observed in C. paradisi (grapefruit), while levels of Al (39.5 ± 4 ppm) and Mn (5.5 ± 1 ppm) were found higher in C. sinensis (sweet orange). The aqueous extract of Citrus peel waste showed strong antimicrobial activity against the tested microorganisms. C. sinensis (sweet orange) peel extract showed the highest zone of inhibition (21 ± 0 mm) against Escherichia coli. C. aurantium (sour orange) possessed good antifungal activity against Aspergillus niger (17 ± 1 mm).
Although CCH can be improved, cognitive impairment is not improved accordingly. To date, many studies have focused on investigating the pathophysiological mechanisms of CCH; however, the treatment of the induced cognitive impairment remains ineffective. Thus, the mechanisms underlying cognitive impairment after CCH and potential agents for treating this impairment need to be explored further. Oxiracetam is a nootropic drug that improves clinical outcomes for some central nervous system (CNS) disorders. Whether it can improve cognitive impairment after CCH is unknown. In this study, we used behavioural methods, electrophysiology, biochemistry, histopathological staining and transmission electron microscope to investigate rat's cognitive impairment by CCH, and found that Oxiracetam could improve CCH-induced cognitive impairment and prevent deficits of neural plasticity, white matter lesions, and synaptic ultrastructure. These results suggest that Oxiracetam may be effective as a potential agent against CCH-induced cognitive impairment.
Sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P), a bioactive lipid signaling molecule, plays important roles in diverse cellular functions such as cell proliferation, differentiation and migration, etc. S1P is intracellularly produced from sphingosine and subsequently released to the extracellular fluid, then specifically binds to S1P receptors on target cells. S1P mainly originates from hematopoietic cells and vascular endothelial cells. Several findings have revealed that ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters in erythrocytes and platelets and Spinster homologue 2 (Spns2) in endothelial cells both function as S1P transporters. Spns2 is proposed to be the first physiologically functional S1P transporter. Based on the amino acid sequence homology, Spns2 is predicted to belong to the major facilitator superfamily (MFS) transporters. Spns2-deficient mice are recently used for the further characterization of Spns2 function. Accumulating results suggest that the S1P concentration in the plasma of Spns2-deficient mice is reduced notably compared with wild-type mice. In addition, lymphocyte egress to the blood stream in Spns2-deficient mice is blocked. Here, we review the research history, enzymatic properties, substrate, physiological functions of Spns2 and the correlation between Spns2 and diseases such as autoimmune diseases and cancer, which could provide fundamental reference for further study of Spns2.
Objective: To investigate the changes in energy metabolism, disease status and quality of life in liver cirrhosis patients after 3 months of nutrition intervention in the form of late night snack. Methods: This study is a prospective, open-label, multicenter study with a total of 105 patients with HBV-related cirrhosis in 8 city and suburban hospital in Beijing. All the patients received the intervention of 836.4 kJ of late night snacks for 3 months. The nutritional status was evaluated with Nutritional Risk Screening 2002 (NRS 2002), Subjective Global Assessment, traditional nutrition index, metabolic cart, and WHOQOL-BREF questionnaire. We compared the nutritional status, liver function index, complications and quality of life of the patients before (baseline) and 3 months after the intervention. Results: Child-Pugh A, B, C grade accounted for 60.00% (63/105), 31.43% (33/105), and 8.57% (9/105), respectively of the 105 patients with hepatitis B cirrhosis. 91 cases with albumin (ALB) >30 g/L were assessed using NRS2002, 37.36% (34/91) of whom had NRS 2002≥3. According to Subjective Global Assessment, the prevalence of malnutrition was 34.39% before and 10.47% after the intervention (P <0.05). Liver function indexes were significantly improved after intervention compared with the baseline: serum total protein (TP) [(66.59 ±8.73) g/L vs. (68.25 ± 7.89) g/L], albumin (ALB) [(38.52 ± 6.60) g/L vs. (39.82 ±5.79) g/L], pre albumin (PALB) [(1 519.70 ±690.40) mg/L vs. (1 731.10 ±651.10) mg/L], cholinesterase (CHE) [(5 273.17 ± 2 358.85) U/L vs. (5 569.81 ± 2 110.41) U/L], total cholesterol (TC) [(3.86 ±1.02) mmol/L vs. (4.03 ± 0.92) mmol/L] (all P < 0.05). After the intervention, the proportion of Child-Pugh grade A patients increased from 60% to 72.38%, and the proportion of Child-Pugh grade C patients reduced from 8.57% to 1.90% (both P <0.05). In terms of complications, the prevalence of ascites (26.67% vs. 12.38%) and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (10.48% vs. 1.90%) were reduced (both P <0.05). Compared with before the intervention, the quality of life of the patients was improved [(73.81 ±10.07) vs. (76.95 ±10.20), P <0.05]. Baseline and 3-month measurement of energy metabolism were completed in 46 patients: respiratory quotient (0.80 ±0.07 vs. 0.84 ±0.07) and carbohydrate oxidation rate [(41.93 ±11.33)% vs. (51.11 ± 8.96)%] were significantly higher after intervention (both P <0.05), while protein oxidation rate [(22.13 ±4.34)% vs. (18.76 ±2.90)%] and fat oxidation rate [(35.93 ±11.01)% vs. (30.35 ±8.60)%] were significantly lower (both P <0.05). Conclusion: The continuous intervention with 836.4 kJ of carbohydrates may reduce the decomposition of protein and fat in patients with cirrhosis, improve liver function, reduce complications, and improve patient quality of life.
The present study aimed to explore the correlation between immune factors (C3 and Th17-related cytokines) and aggressive behavior in schizophrenia patients. Forty schizophrenia patients and forty age- and gender-matched healthy controls participated in the study. Blood samples were assessed by ELISA upon enrollment. Positive and negative syndrome scale (PANSS) and modified overt aggression scale (MOAS) were used to estimate the severity and aggressive symptoms of schizophrenia patients. Plasma levels of IL-17, IL-23, and TGF-β1 in schizophrenia patients were significantly higher than those in healthy controls [(37.63±17.82) vs. (29.34±10.38) pg/ml, p=0.02; (101.40±135.26) vs. (13.09±5.94) pg/ml, p=0.01; (2864.57±2163.61) vs. (1839.69±1797.73) pg/ml, p=0.04], whereas C3 levels were significantly lower in schizophrenia patients [( 120,479.67± 65,612.50) vs. ( 208,060.21± 217,008.21) ng/ml, p=0.02]. IL-17, IL-23, and TGF-β1 levels were positively related to total scores of MOAS (p=0.02, p=0.02 and p=0.03, respectively) and PANSS (p=0.04, p=0.04 and p=0.02, respectively), whereas C3 levels were negatively related to total PANSS scores (p=0.03). IL-17 and IL-23 levels were positively correlated with PANSS excited component scores (p=0.04 and p=0.01, respectively). Our findings suggested that the Th17-related cytokine levels were positively related to the severity of schizophrenia and aggressive behavior, whereas C3 levels were negatively related to the severity of schizophrenia. This study demonstrated that elevated levels of Th17-related cytokines and decreased levels of C3 could be potential biomarkers for schizophrenia and aggressive behavior.
Glioblastoma multiform (GBM) is the most frequent and aggressive form of brain tumors in adults. However, the development of more efficient and safe nonviral vector gene therapy represents a promising therapeutic approach, using a tumor-specific killer gene, named apoptin. In this study, we describe the efficacy of non-viral gene delivery vectors, the amino acid-conjugated PAMAM derivatives (PAMAM-H-R and PAMAM-H-K) in delivering a therapeutic gene, displaying affinity toward human primary glioma cells (GBL-14 cells) and dermal fibroblasts. We analyzed transfection efficiency, using luciferase (Luci) and a pDNA encoding for enhanced fluorescent protein (EGFP), and cytotoxicity in both cells. The results show that transfection efficiency of PAMAM-H-R improved compared to native PAMAM dendrimer, but cytotoxicity of PAMAM-H-R and PAMAM-H-K were very low. We treated both cells with a polyplex formation of PAMAM-H-R or PAMAM-H-K/apoptin, and analyzed their cellular uptake and localization by flow cytometry and confocal microscopy. Furthermore, we analyzed the endosomal escape effect using TEM images, and found that PAMAM-H-R showed very fast escape from endosome to the cytosol. Caspase 3 activity assay, cell cycle distribution, and JC-1 analysis showed apoptosis induced by apoptin in GBL-14 cells. This indicates that PAMAM-H-R can be a potential nonviral vector gene delivery carrier for brain tumor therapy. The present study demonstrates that PAMAM-H-R/apoptin gene polyplex can be used as an effective therapeutic candidate for GBM due to its selective induction of apoptosis in primary glioma cells as a potential nonviral gene delivery carrier for brain tumor therapy.
Background: Although promising for graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) treatment, MSC therapy still faces important challenges. For instance, increasing MSC migratory capacity as well as potentializing immune response suppression are of interest. For GvHD management, preventing opportunistic infections is also a valuable strategy, since immunocompromised patients are easy targets for infections. LL-37 is a host defense peptide (HDP) that has been deeply investigated due to its immunomodulatory function. In this scenario, the combination of MSC and LL-37 may result in a robust combination to be clinically used. Methods: In the present study, the effects of LL-37 upon the proliferation and migratory capacity of human placenta-derived MSCs (pMSCs) were assessed by MTT and wound scratch assays. The influence of LL-37 over the immunosuppressive function of pMSCs was then investigated using CFSE cell division kit. Flow cytometry and real-time PCR were used to investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in the effects observed. Results: LL-37 had no detrimental effects over MSC proliferation and viability, as assessed by MTT assay. Moreover, the peptide promoted increased migratory behavior of pMSCs and enhanced their immunomodulatory function over activated human PBMCs. Strikingly, our data shows that LL-37 treatment leads to increased TLR3 levels, as shown by flow cytometry, and to an increased expression of factors classically related to immunosuppression, namely IDO, IL-10, TGF-β, IL-6, and IL-1β. Conclusions: Taken together, our observations may serve as groundwork for the development of new therapeutic strategies based on the combined use of LL-37 and MSCs, which may provide patients not only with an enhanced immunosuppression regime, but also with an agent to prevent opportunistic infections.
While FP-CIT uptake in extrastriatal regions has been quantified, no information exists on the reproducibility of the 123I-FP-CIT specific uptake ratio (SUR) in extrastriatal regions. We investigated test-retest reproducibility of 123I-FP-CIT binding in the striatum, the midbrain, and cortical regions in eight healthy male subjects. All subjects underwent two 123I-FP-CIT SPECT scans, and SUR was calculated using the cerebellum as the reference. We found good test-retest reproducibility of 123I-FP-CIT SUR in the midbrain, and in the lateral frontal/temporal cortex and combined cortical regions. The overall variability and intraclass correlation of SUR were, respectively, 4.9–7.8% and 0.90–0.96 in striatal regions, 8.6% and 0.79 in the midbrain, and 3.6–9.1% and 0.84–0.95 in the lateral frontal/temporal cortex and combined cortical regions. Our results provide evidence that 123I-FP-CIT SPECT is a valid technique for analyzing striatal DAT, as well as extrastriatal SERT in areas such as the SERT-enriched midbrain. In addition, our data suggest that 123I-FP-CIT could be used for analyzing SERT in regions with relatively low SERT expression (e.g., temporal or frontal cortices).
Rationale: The aim of the study was to use a technique that combines acid hydrolysis and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) in order to detect the serum biomarkers of patients diagnosed with schizophrenia both before and after four-week antipsychotic treatment with risperidone. Methods: During this study's two-year period, inpatients were diagnosed with schizophrenia using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I Disorders. Severity was then evaluated using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale both at baseline and at endpoint following four-week treatment with risperidone. The patients' serum biomarkers were quickly measured using acid hydrolysis and MALDI-TOF MS. The resulting peptides were then analyzed using MALDI-TOF MS. We constructed a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve for the evaluated biomarkers. Results: We recruited 20 pairs of participants for this study. The experimental group was treated with serum protein with HCl for 10ï¿½minutes to effectively hydrolyze abundant proteins. The target peptide, the immunoglobulin gamma chain (IgG), was then rapidly detected using this manner. A significant difference was found in the IgG levels of patients with schizophrenia before and after antipsychotic treatment. We constructed a ROC curve based on the IgG, and the area under said curve was 0.969. In comparison to conventional detection protocols, this method takes only minutes to complete and is also less costly. Conclusions: This study found that applying acid hydrolysis with MALDI-TOF MS technology could rapidly differentiate serum IgG levels in patients with schizophrenia before and after being treated with risperidone. This IgG difference may enhance the understanding of mechanism of antipsychotic treatment of schizophrenia. Copyright ï¿½ 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
We developed a novel, rapid and cost-effective Zebrafish xenograft model of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) for drug screening in the disease. Following injection into the yolk sack of Zebrafish larvae of the human HCC cell line JHH6 stained by a vital dye, tumor mass growth was followed by fluorescence microscopy and by human Ki67 quantification. Tumor induced neo-angiogenesis was evaluated by alkaline phosphatase staining of the vessels, by using the Tg(fli1:EGFP)y1 strain of Zebrafish and by the quantification of the zebrafish vascular endothelial growth factor and of its receptor. We show that it is feasible to micro-inject JHH6 in Zebrafish larvae, that injected cells can grow for different days and that this induces a marked neo-angiogenesis. Finally, we show that our model allows testing the effects of anti-HCC drugs such as Bortezomib. Compared to more complex HCC mouse models, our model is far less expensive, faster to set up and does not need immunosuppressant treatment. Finally, the model makes use of JHH6, an aggressive form of HCC cell line never tested before in Zebrafish. In conclusion, the possibility to test anti HCC/neo-angiogenesis drugs makes our JHH6 model useful to select therapeutic molecules for a highly vascularized tumor such as HCC.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are an integral part of peripheral tolerance, suppressing immune reactions against self-structures and thus preventing autoimmune diseases. Clinical approaches to adoptively transfer Tregs, or to deplete Tregs in cancer, are underway with promising first outcomes. Because the number of naturally occurring Tregs (nTregs) is very limited, studying certain Treg features using in vitro induced Tregs (iTregs) can be advantageous. To date, the best although not absolutely specific protein marker to delineate Tregs is the transcription factor FOXP3. Despite the importance of Tregs including non-redundant roles of peripherally induced Tregs, the protocols to generate iTregs are currently controversial, particularly for human cells. This protocol therefore describes the in vitro differentiation of human CD4+FOXP3+ iTregs from human naïve T cells using a range of Treg-inducing factors (TGF-β plus IL-2 only, or their combination with retinoic acid, rapamycin or butyrate) in parallel. It also describes the phenotyping of these cells by flow cytometry and qRT-PCR. These protocols result in reproducible expression of FOXP3 and other Treg signature genes and enable the study of general FOXP3-regulatory mechanisms as well as protocol-specific effects to delineate the impact of certain factors. iTregs can be utilized to study various phenotypic aspects as well as molecular mechanisms of Treg induction. Detailed molecular studies are facilitated by relatively large cell numbers that can be obtained. A limitation for the application of iTregs is the relative instability of FOXP3 expression in these cells compared to nTregs. iTregs generated by these protocols can also be used for functional assays such as studying their suppressive function, in which iTregs induced by TGF-β plus retinoic acid and rapamycin display superior suppressive activity. However, the suppressive capacity of iTregs can differ from nTregs and the use of appropriate controls is crucial.
Objective: The identification of the biological function of M1 macrophages and the mechanism underlying their role in valvular interstitial cell (VIC) calcification may provide therapeutic targets for the prevention of aortic valve calcification (AVC). This study investigated the mechanism by which M1 macrophages and macrophage-derived microvesicles (MVs) affected the calcification of VICs. An additional aim was to investigate the involvement of the miR-214 pathway in this process. Methods: The M1 or M2 macrophage phenotype in human calcific aortic valve was confirmed by gene expression analysis of M1 or M2 macrophage markers. Two macrophage cell lines (BMDMs and RAW 264.7 macrophages) were transformed into M1 macrophages by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. To investigate the mechanism by which M1 macrophages promoted VIC calcification, the generated M1 macrophages and macrophage-derived MVs were co-cultured with VICs and VICs were then used for calcification or signals analysis. In addition, a hypercholesterolemic apoE-/- AVC murine model was used to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of miR-214 specific-siRNA (miR-214 inhibitor). Results: Macrophages in calcific aortic valves showed M1-directed polarization. In the VICs co-cultured with LPS-stimulated M1 macrophages and macrophage-derived MVs, VIC calcification was enhanced, and the expression of TWIST1, a direct target of miR-214, was down regulated. We showed that knockdown of TWIST1 serves as a responding molecule for miR-214 and reversed the anti-calcification action of miR-214 inhibitor, mediating signal delivery by the M1 macrophage-derived MVs to VICs and promoting VIC calcification. When M1 macrophages co-cultured with VICs, TWIST1 over expression in M1 macrophages had no effect on the expression of TWIST1 in VICs. As shown by intravenous therapy, knockdown of miR-214 in mice seemed to improve AVC in apoE-/- mice with high-cholesterol (HC)-diet induced AVC. Conclusions: These findings suggested that M1 macrophages promoted AVC by the delivery of miR-214 to valvular interstitial cells via macrophage-derived MVs and subsequent downregulation of TWIST1 of valvular interstitial cells.
The accumulation of amyloid-beta (Aβ) fibrils in a brain has been recognized to contribute to the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the relation between the structure of the aggregate and its toxicity to AD patients remains to be fully elucidated. A recent solid-state NMR analysis for the tissue obtained from the brains of AD patients revealed that the Aβ aggregates have only a single structure with three-fold symmetry. We here investigate the specific interactions between Aβ peptides in the aggregate, using ab initio fragment molecular orbital calculations, to explain why such a unique structure possesses significant stability. The results indicate that the interactions between the Aβ peptides of the stacked Aβ pair are stronger than those between the Aβ peptides of the trimer with three-fold symmetry. Furthermore, it is elucidated that the charged amino-acid residues of Aβ mainly contribute to the strong attractive interactions between the paired Aβ peptides.
Metallic nanoparticles have been utilized as analytical tools to detect a wide range of organic analytes. In most reports, gold (Au)-based nanosensors have been modified with ligands to introduce selectivity towards a specific target molecule. However, in a recent study a new concept was presented where bare Au-nanorods on self-assembled carboxymethyl-hexanoyl chitosan (CHC) nanocarriers achieved sensitive and selective detection of human serum albumin (HSA) after manipulation of the solution pH. Here this concept was further advanced through optimization of the ratio between Au-nanorods and CHC nanocarriers to create a nanotechnology-based sensor (termed CHC-AuNR nanoprobe) with an outstanding lower detection limit (LDL) for HSA. The CHC-AuNR nanoprobe was evaluated in simulated urine solution and a LDL as low as 1.5 pM was achieved at an estimated AuNR/CHC ratio of 2. Elemental mapping and protein adsorption kinetics over three orders of magnitude in HSA concentration confirmed accumulation of HSA on the nanorods and revealed the adsorption to be completed within 15 min for all investigated concentrations. The results suggest that the CHC-AuNR nanoprobe has potential to be utilized for cost-effective detection of analytes in complex liquids.
Cross-linked thin films based on pH-responsive polymers with a specific ligand inside the organic layer are useful materials in separation processes or in fabrication of controlled delivery systems. Herein, we report the step-by-step deposition of polymer multilayers based on poly(ethyleneimine) (PEI), poly(acrylic acid) (PAA) and poly(sodium methacrylate) (PMAA) followed by the Congo red (CR) immobilization onto composite Daisogel silica microparticles and silicon wafers. The non-crosslinked composites were not stable in extreme basic medium (pH = 13), while thermal and chemical cross-linked samples with CR inside were stable over a wide range of pH. The interaction properties of different proteins [pepsin (PEP), lysozyme, trypsin, bovine serum albumin] with modified solid surfaces were followed by potentiometric titrations, UV and AFM measurements. Only the PEP macromolecules were sorbed onto the Daisogel composite microparticles with CR inside the cross-linked multilayer. The maximum sorbed amount was nearly 200 mg PEP/g Daisogel//(PEI/PAA)4.5 + CR. This high sorbed amount was in accordance with the AFM images, the average high and roughness increased drastically after the sorption of PEP.
This research was performed to evaluate and compare the growth performance of Asian catfish (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus) fed diets containing Cinnamomum burmannii leaf powder and extract. Catfish with an initial body weight of 319±36 g fish-1 was reared in 9 different floating cages (2 × 1 × 1.5 m) with a density of 15 fish per cage for 60 days period. The fish were fed with diets containing cinnamon leaf either in powder or extract form at different doses: 0% cinnamon leaf, 0.1% cinnamon leaf extract, 1% cinnamon leaf powder. Fish were fed twice a day with a feeding rate of 3% of the average body weight. The results showed that the addition of cinnamon leaf extract and powder significantly increased the fish specific growth rate, feed efficiency, protein retention as compared to the control (p < 0.05). Biochemical analysis of blood showed that the cinnamon leaf extract and powder considerably lowered cholesterol, triglycerides, and increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL0 (p < 0.05). However, cinnamon leaf extract more effectively increased HDL levels and decreased fat in the liver by 41% and 38% respectively, than cinnamon leaf powder did (p < 0.05). Supplementation of 0.1% extract and 1% powder of cinnamon leaf in diet was efficient and applicable in improving the growth performance of catfish.
In this paper, the nutritional components of dried scallop were comprehensively analyzed Using conventional nutrition component analysis method. The volatile flavor compounds in the dried scallop were extracted and identified by headspace solid-phase microextraction-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The contributions of volatile compounds to global odor perception were evaluated by a relative odor activity value (ROAV) combined with odor threshold. The results show that: the Content of the water content, Ash, Crude protein and crude fat in dried scallop are 18.72%, 14.43%, 53.92% and 5.01%, respectively; The content of Na was the highest in mineral elements, and reached to 5 284.51 mg/kg; the highest content of fatty acids was DHA (C22:6n3, 26.75%); The mass fraction of essential amino acids in scallop was 38.37%, flavor amino acid total amino acids (WDAA/WTAA) 46.06%; Seventy-seven volatile compounds were identified in dried scallop. Among them Nonanal, heptanal, n-octanal, 1-octene-3-alcohol, hexanal were the key compounds.
Rationale: The processes for dissociative electron capture are the key mechanisms for decomposition of biomolecules, proteins in particular, under interaction with low-energy electrons. Molecules of aspartic acid and aspartame, i.e. modified dipeptides, were studied herein to define the impact of the side functional groups on peptide chain decomposition in resonant electron-molecular reactions. Methods: The processes of formation and decomposition of negative ions of both aspartame and aspartic acid were studied by mass spectrometry of negative ions under resonant electron capture. The obtained mass spectra were interpreted under thermochemical analysis by quantum chemical calculations. Results: Main channels of negative molecular ions fragmentation were found and characteristic fragment ions were identified. Conclusions: The СООН fragment of the side chain in aspartic acid is shown to play a key role like the carboxyl group in amino acids and aliphatic oligopeptides. Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Optogenetic tools allow isolated, functional investigations of almost any signaling molecule within complex signaling pathways. A major obstacle is the controlled delivery of light to the cell sample and hence the most popular tools for optogenetic studies are microscopy-based cell analyses and in vitro experiments. The flow cytometer has major advantages over a microscope, including the ability to rapidly measure thousands of cells at single cell resolution. However, it is not yet widely used in optogenetics. Here, we present a device that combines the power of optogenetics and flow cytometry: the LED Thermo Flow. This device illuminates cells at specific wavelengths, light intensities and temperatures during flow cytometric measurements. It can be built at low cost and be used with most common flow cytometers. To demonstrate its utility, we characterized the photoswitching kinetics of Dronpa proteins in vivo and in real time. This protocol can be adapted to almost all optically controlled substances and substantially expands the set of possible experiments. More importantly, it will greatly simplify the discovery and development of new optogenetic tools.
It is the current view that purinergic signaling regulates many physiological functions. Pannexin1 (Panx1), a member of the gap junction family of proteins is an ATP releasing channel that plays important physio-pathological roles in various tissues, including the CNS. Upon binding to purinergic receptors expressed in neural cells, ATP triggers cellular responses including increased cell proliferation, cell morphology changes, release of cytokines, and regulation of neuronal excitability via release of glutamate, GABA and ATP itself. Under pathological conditions such as ischemia, trauma, inflammation, and epilepsy, extracellular ATP concentrations increases drastically but the consequences of this surge is still difficult to characterize due to its rapid metabolism in ADP and adenosine, the latter having inhibitory action on neuronal activity. For seizures, for instance, the excitatory effect of ATP on neuronal activity is mainly related to its action of P2X receptors, while the inhibitory effects are related to activation of P1, adenosine receptors. Here we provide a mini review on the properties of pannexins with a main focus on Panx1 and its involvement in seizure activity. Although there are only few studies implicating Panx1 in seizures, they are illustrative of the dual role that Panx1 has on neuronal excitability.
Purpose: Optic neuritis, inflammation of the optic nerve, is experienced by most patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and is typically characterized by episodes of acute, monocular vision loss. These episodes of inflammation can lead to damage or degeneration of the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), the axons of which comprise the optic nerve. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a well-established model of MS in which mice are immunized to produce a neuroautoimmunity that recapitulates the cardinal hallmarks of human disease, namely, inflammation, demyelination, and neurodegeneration of the brain, spinal cord, and optic nerve. Inflammation-associated oxidative stress plays a key role in promoting spinal cord damage in EAE. However, the role of oxidative stress in optic neuritis and the associated visual deficits has not been studied. To address this gap in research, we sought to determine how a deficiency in the master antioxidant transcription factor (using nuclear factor-E2-related factor [Nrf2]-deficient mice) affects visual pathology in the EAE model. Methods: EAE was induced in 8-week-old wild-type (WT) and Nrf2 knockout (KO) mice by immunization against the myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) peptide antigen. Motor deficits were monitored daily, as was visual acuity using the established functional optokinetic tracking (OKT) assay. Mice were euthanized 21 days post-immunization for histological analyses. The optic nerves were paraffin-embedded and stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) or immune cell type–specific antibodies to analyze inflammatory infiltrates. The retinas were flatmounted and stained with an RGC-specific antibody, and the RGCs were counted to assess neurodegeneration. T-helper (Th) cell-associated cytokines were measured in spleens with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Immune analyses of healthy, non-EAE mice were characterized with flow cytometry to assess the baseline immune cell profiles. Results: Female Nrf2 KO mice exhibited more severe EAE-induced motor deficits compared with female WT mice. In both genders, EAE elicited more severe visual acuity deficits, inflammation of the optic nerve, and RGC degeneration in KO mice compared with their strain- and age-matched WT counterparts. Visual acuity deficits were primarily present in (and only exacerbated in) one eye of each mouse. Excess inflammatory cells within the optic nerves of the KO mice were primarily comprised of T-cells, and greater RGC degeneration in the KO mice was most prevalent in the central retina compared with the peripheral retina. Nrf2 KO spleens exhibited an increased Th1- but not Th17-associated immune response. This enhanced pathology in the KO mice was not due to global differences in immune system development between the two genotypes. Conclusions: This is the first study to report that genetic ablation of Nrf2 exacerbates visual deficits, inflammation of the optic nerve, and RGC degeneration in a murine model of MS, suggesting that Nrf2 plays a neuro- and cytoprotective role in EAE-associated optic neuritis.
Ca2+-siRNA nanocomplexes represent a simple yet an effective platform for siRNA delivery into the cell cytoplasm, with subsequent successful siRNA-induced target gene silencing. Herein, we aimed to elucidate the roles played by calcium ions in siRNA nanocomplex formation, cell uptake, and endosomal escape. We investigated whether the replacement of Ca2+in the nanocomplex by other bivalent cations would affect their cell entry and subsequent gene silencing. Our results indicate that Mg2+ and Ba2+ lead to the formation of nanocomplexes of similar physical features (size = 100 nm, surface charge ζ = −8 mV) as the Ca2+-siRNA nanocomplexes. Yet, these nanocomplexes were not uptaken by the cells to the same extent as those prepared with Ca2+, and siRNA-induced target gene silencing was not obtained. Cell internalization of Ca2+−-siRNA nanocomplexes, examined by employing chemical inhibitors to clathrin-, caveolin- and dynamin-mediated endocytosis pathways, indicated the involvement of all mechanisms in the process. Inhibition of endosome acidification by bafilomycin completely abolished the siRNA-mediated silencing by Ca2+-siRNA nanocomplexes. Collectively, our results indicate that Ca2+ promotes cell internalization and rapid endosomal escape, thus leading to the efficient siRNA-induced target gene silencing elicited by the Ca2+-siRNA nanocomplexes.
Background: To examine the structural and oxidative properties of lipoproteins from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Methods: The lipid profiles of 35 SLE patients and 15 healthy controls (HCs) were compared. Oxidation status, susceptibility to oxidation, and structural integrity of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) were determined by measuring malondialdehyde (MDA), de novo formation of conjugated dienes in the presence of CuSO4, and mobility on gel electrophoresis, respectively. In vitro foam cell formation and the oxidative potential in zebrafish embryos were examined. Results: LDL levels in SLE patients and HCs were similar (p=0.277). LDL from SLE patients was more fragmented than that from HCs. In addition, LDL from SLE patients was more oxidized than LDL from HCs (p<0.001) and more susceptible to de novo oxidation (p<0.001) in vitro. THP-1 cells engulfed more LDL from SLE patients than LDL from HCs (p<0.001). LDL from SLE patients, which was injected into zebrafish embryos, induced a higher degree of oxidation and a higher mortality than LDL from HCs (both p<0.001). The survival of embryos treated with oxidized LDL was significantly better in the presence of HDL3 from HCs than that from SLE patients (all p<0.001). Conclusions: Lipoproteins from SLE patients exhibited greater oxidative potential, which might contribute to accelerated atherosclerosis in SLE.
The aim of our study was to compare levels of IGF-1 in drug-naïve patients with a first episode of schizophrenia and related disorders with matched healthy controls. Forty drug naïve first-episode patients with schizophrenia and related disorders and forty healthy subjects matched for age, gender, body mass index (BMI) and smoking status were enrolled in the study. Serum levels of IGF-1 for each sample were measured in duplicate by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method using human IGF-1. The median IGF-1 levels were significantly higher in drug-naive patients with psychosis compared to healthy controls (109.66 ng/ml vs. 86.96 ng/ml, respectively p=0.039). Multiple regression analysis revealed that differences in serum IGF-1 values were independent of glucose metabolism (fasting glucose, fasting insulin, insulin resistance) and cortisol. These results show that IGF-1 may be implicated in the pathophysiology of psychosis but confirmation is needed from other studies.
Objective: The changes in collagen of sea cucumber and fish skin collagen in the process of heat treatment were studied comparatively to illucidate the specificity of sea cucumber collagen in the process of heat treatment. Method: The sensitivity of collagen to heat was determined by SDS-PAGE, and chemical interactions in protein were determined by sequential dissolution procedure. Results: The collagen fiber of sea cucumber body wall showed a trend of gradual degradation with the increase of heat treatment period and temperature. After treatment at 80℃ for 1 h and 90 ℃ for 3 h, the collagen fiber of sea cucumber body wall was degraded completely. The collagen of tilapia fish skin had a relatively high thermal stability. The collagen of tilapia fish skin was degraded partially maintaining β and α chains with the increase of heat treatment time and temperature. The main chemical interactions were nonspecific association and hydrophobic interactions for sea cucumber body wall and tilapia fish skin, respectively. During heat treatment at 60-90 ℃, the nonspecific association was enhanced, but the ionic bonds, hydrogen bonds, and disulfide bonds were decreased in sea cucumber body wall. In the process of heating treatment, the hydrophobic interactions (60-90℃) and disulfide bonds (60-70℃) were increased, whereas the nonspecific association, ionic bonds and hydrogen bonds were decreased in tilapia fish skin. [Conclusion] The above results suggest that collagen in sea cucumber body wall and tilapia fish skin exists significant difference during heat treatment, which may be related to their thermal stability and chemical interactions.
Fragment screening and high throughput screening are complementary approaches that combine with structural biology to explore the binding capabilities of an active site. We have used a fragment-based approach on malate synthase (GlcB) from Mycobacterium tuberculosis and discovered several novel binding chemotypes. In addition, the crystal structures of GlcB in complex with these fragments indicated conformational changes in the active site that represent the enzyme conformations during catalysis. Additional structures of the complex with malate and of the apo form of GlcB supported that hypothesis. Comparative analysis of GlcB structures in complex with 18 fragments allowed us to characterize the preferred chemotypes and their binding modes. The fragment structures showed a hydrogen bond to the backbone carbonyl of Met-631. We successfully incorporated an indole group from a fragment into an existing phenyl-diketo acid series. The resulting indole-containing inhibitor was 100-fold more potent than the parent phenyl-diketo acid with an IC50 value of 20 nM.
Objective To preliminarily explore the effects of gene knock-out and overexpression of aldolase A on tumor cell proliferation, and then confirm the relationship between aldolase A and tumor growth during the process of anaerobic metabolism. Methods Through vector plasmid building and lentiviral infection, the cell lines stably overexpressing aldolase A and its gene knock- out cell lines were constructed respectively. The restructured cell lines were validated on gene and protein levels. Then, the changes of cell proliferation ratio were observed. Results Real time PCR results showed that aldolase A gene expression of the overexpressing cell line was about 3 times that of the normal cells. Among the five interfering targets of aldolase A designed according to aldolase A RNA sequences, aldolase A4 had more obvious interference effect on the target gene expression, the aldolase A mRNA level of which was about 1/50 of the normal cells. Compared with normal control group, the proliferation rate of aldolase A gene overexpression significantly increased by 40% in 48 h(P<0.05), while the proliferation rate of aldolase A gene knock out cells significantly de? creased about 86% in 24 h(P<0.05). Conclusion Aldolase A expressions have obvious effects on hepatocellular carcinoma cells.
The COMT gene is related to sexual dimorphism and with different choices made under uncertainty, albeit no study has specifically investigated a moderation effect of sex on the association between the COMT gene and the performance on decision-making paradigms. In this study, we investigated the influence of the COMT Val158Met polymorphism on Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) performance depending on sex in a healthy adult sample. Participants were 192 healthy adults (84 men and 108 women). The first 40 choices in the IGT were considered decisions under ambiguity and the last 60 choices decisions under risk. To test our moderation hypothesis we used a separate regressions approach. The results revealed a sex-dependent effect of COMT Va l158Met polymorphism on decision-making as measured by the IGT. Val/Val women showed the best performance in the last trials of the IGT. Therefore, the COMT Val158Met polymorphism may be considered a genetic marker underlying sex differences in decision-making.
Intestinal P-glycoprotein is regio-selectively expressed and is a high affinity, low capacity efflux carrier for the cationic, poorly permeable trospium. Organic cation transporter 1 (OCT1) provides lower affinity but higher capacity for trospium uptake. To evaluate regional intestinal permeability, absorption profiles after gastric infusion of trospium chloride (30 mg/250 ml = [I]2) for 6 h and after swallowing 30 mg immediate-release tablets in fasted and fed healthy subjects, were evaluated using an inverse Gaussian density function to model input rate and mean absorption time (MAT). Trospium chloride was slowly absorbed (MAT ∼10 h) after gastric infusion involving two processes with different input rates, peaking at about 3 h and 7 h. Input rates and MAT were influenced by dosage form and meal. In conclusion, trospium is absorbed from two “windows” located in the jejunum and cecum/ascending colon, whose uptake capacity might result from local abundance and functional interplay of P-glycoprotein and OCT1.
The aim of this study was to investigate the use of bovine serum albumin (BSA) as a solubility enhancer for indometacin (IND) as a model drug. IND-BSA solid dispersions were prepared by both spray drying and freeze drying techniques using IND:BSA solution (20:1 Molar Ratio (MR)) and IND:BSA suspension (100:1 MR). The solid state of IND in solid dispersions was characterised by SEM, DSC and XRD. The aqueous solubility of IND in the presence of increased amounts of BSA was evaluated. Additionally, IND dissolution and release profiles were evaluated. IND in solid dispersions with BSA showed significantly higher solubility in water than that of the physical mixture of both. Enhancement factors of 24,000 and 100,000 were obtained for the solid dispersion formulated in 20:1 MR and 100:1 MR, respectively. Dissolution studies in-vitro indicated a significant increase in the dissolution rate of IND from solid dispersions compared to that of the free drug, with almost 95% of the drug dissolved in the first 5 min. Furthermore, an immediate release of IND from BSA solid dispersions was shown. The potential use of albumin as solubility enhancer for poorly soluble drugs, particularly, for immediate release volume-limited dosage forms is reported.
The objective of this study is to investigate the loading mechanism and validity of applying electrostatic attraction for the colistin entrapment and delivery in liposomes. Anionic lipids with various structures were used for colistin entrapment, and the properties of resulting liposomes (i.e. zeta-potential, EE and release rate) were highly dependent on the structure of anionic lipids. Based on consideration of intermolecular interactions, the retention of electrostatically entrapped colistin is essentially determined by the balance of interfacial hydrophobic attraction and electrostatic repulsion. The liposomal colistin showed the reduced bacterial killing rate, but did not compromise the in vitro antibacterial activity. Specially, the PEGylated liposomal colistin of sodium cholesteryl sulfate (Chol-SO4−) showed the best drug retention, resulting in the significantly increased maximum-tolerated dose, prolonged blood circulation and decreased colistin distribution in kidney after intravenous administration in mice. These results highlight the potential utility of electrostatically entrapped liposome for polycationic colistin delivery.
Following exposure to stress, glucocorticoids are secreted from the adrenal cortex and act via the ligand-activated glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Several polymorphisms of the GR-encoding gene NR3C1 have been described and functionally investigated. However, the impact of these variants on complex diseases such as Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is still unclear. In this study, 251 children with ADHD, 19 affected and 35 unaffected siblings, and their parents were included in a family-based association study assessing seven common variants of NR3C1 (TthIIII_rs10052957; NR3C1-I_rs10482605; ER22/23EK_rs6189/rs6190; N363S_rs56149945; BclI_rs41423247; GR-9beta_rs6198). A four-marker haplotype (TthIIII-NR3C1-I-ER22/23EK) was nominally associated with ADHD. In addition, in index children with ADHD, associations with comorbid disorders, inattentive and hyperactive-impulsive symptoms were explored. N363S minor allele carriers were more likely to show comorbid conduct disorder (CD). In our study, NR3C1 variants moderately affected ADHD and had a significant effect on comorbid CD. Therefore, NR3C1 as an important gene of the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis seems to be particularly relevant for the pathophysiology of ADHD combined with comorbid CD. For a deeper understanding, investigations in larger samples of healthy, ADHD and CD individuals are warranted.
Recently, a large genome-wide association study (GWAS) of plasma total homocysteine levels in individuals of European ancestry identified many single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (n=13,974). The primary purpose of this study was to examine the association between these plasma total homocysteine-related SNPs and SCZ in the Japanese population. First, we investigated associations between six SNPs and plasma total homocysteine levels in non-psychiatric subjects in the Japanese population (n=1030). Then, we evaluated the cumulative effects of three SNPs on SCZ risk by calculating the Genotype Risk Score (GRS) (1120 cases, 2643 controls). Of the six SNPs examined, we replicated similar associations with the European GWAS at four loci (CENPQ, CPS1, MTHFR, and MUT). GRS based on three SNPs (CENPQ, CPS1, and MTHFR) was significantly associated with SCZ. Our findings suggest that common polygenic variations, which are associated with the plasma total homocysteine levels, may contribute to the risk of SCZ.
Objective: To establish a Daphnia model of alloxan-induced diabetes. Methods: Daphnia were exposed to three different concentrations of alloxan (3,5, and 10 mmol/L) for 30 minutes. Blood glucose and survival rate were recorded for 72 hours after alloxan insult. Sequence analysis and phylogenetic inference for glucose transporters (GLUT) were clustered with the maximum-likelihood method. Using reverse transcription and quantitative polymerase chain reaction techniques, we investigated the transcriptional changes of GLUT at 12 hours after alloxan (5 mmol/L) exposure. Results: Compared with control, 3 mmol/L, and 5 mmol/L as well as 10 mmol/L alloxan initially induced transient blood glucose decline by 15% for 2 hours and 12 hours respectively. In Daphnia with 5 and 10 mmol/L alloxan, their blood glucose was persistently raised by about 150% since after 24-hour insult. Survival rate of Daphnia exposure to alloxan with concentrations of 3, 5, and 10 mmol/L were 90%, 75%, and 25% respectively. We predicted seven GLUT genes in the Daphnia genome and successfully amplified them using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Two of seven GLUT transcripts were down-regulated in Daphnia with 5 mmol/L alloxan-induced diabetes. Conclusion: Alloxan-induced diabetes model was successfully established in the Daphnia pulex, suggesting diabetes-relevant experiments can be conducted using Daphnia.
Electrospun poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA) nanofiber mats were successfully modified by deposition of multilayers with chitosan (CS), heparin (Hep) and graphene oxide (GO) through electrostatic layer-by-layer (LBL) self-assembly method. In this study, the surface properties of PLLA nanofiber mats before and after modification were investigated via scanning electron microscope (SEM), atomic force microscopy (AFM), attenuated total reflectance fourier transformation infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and water contact angle measurement. In addition, the cytocompatibility of the modified PLLA nanofiber mats were investigated by testing endothelial cells compatibility, including cell attachment, cell proliferation and cell cycle. The results revealed that the surfaces of modified PLLA nanofiber mats become much rougher, stifiness and the hydrophilicity of the LBL modified PLLA nanofiber mats were improved compared to original PLLA one. Moreover, the modified PLLA nanofiber mats had promoted the endothelial cells viability attachment significantly. Besides, we studied the PLLA nanofiber mats on the expression of necrosis factor (TNF-α), interleukine-1β (IL-1β), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) in endothelial cells. The results showed that modified PLLA nanofiber mats had inhibited the inflammatory response to some extent.
Objective To establish an ion-pair reverse-phased high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) method for simultaneous determination of ATP, ADP and AMP in the hippocampus of mice. Methods The protein of mouse hippocampus was precipitated with perchloric acid, and neutralized with potassium carbonate-methanol mixture. Mobile phase was as follows: 50 mmol/L phosphate buffer (buffer for K2HPO4-KH2PO4, pH 6.60, containing 22% methanol, and 4 mmol/L tetrabutylammonium bisulfate). Shimadzu HPLC system and Agilent C18 column (4.6 mm×250 mm, 5 μm) filled with the same material pre-column (12.5 mm×4.6 mm, 5 μm) were used. The contents of ATP, ADP and AMP in mouse hippocampus were analyzed at a wavelength of 254 nm, the flow rate of 0.6 ml/min and room column temperature. Results Stability tests showed that intra-day and inter-day precision of the method were 1.27%-3.42% and 0.88%-3.52%, respectively, and recovery rates were 95.67%-104.05%. Conclusion The HPLC method established in this study is simple, accurate and efficient in detecting the levels of ATP, ADP, and AMP in mice hippocampus.
Camelina (Camelina sativa) is a promising biofuel feedstock to fill the fallow period in dryland wheat (Triticum aestivum) −fallow cropping system of the U.S Northern Great Plains (NGP). Responses of camelina to tillage system (conventional tillage [CT] and no-till [NT]), nitrogen (N) rate (0, 45, 90 kg ha−1), and nitrogen source (urea and an enhanced efficiency nitrogen fertilizer [EENF] containing urease and nitrification inhibitors) were evaluated in a 2-yr (2013–2014) field experiment in a dryland farming system of central Montana. Grain yield, biomass, oil content, and oil yield of camelina displayed significant first-order effects of tillage, N rate, and N source when averaged across each of the other factors, but interaction effects were not significant. Camelina tended to yield greater in CT than NT by about 26%. Application of EENF significantly increased grain yield when compared with U, which was more pronounced under CT. Dose response of camelina grain yield, biomass, and grain protein to N rate in the range of 0 to 90 kg ha−1 was linear, whereas N fertilization showed a detrimental effect on oil accumulation in seeds. Although oil content declined in response to N application, oil yield (kg ha−1), which is the most important criterionin seedoil derived biofeedstock, positively responded to N application. Our results clearly demonstrated the need for further research to optimize management strategies for successful camelina production under NT system. Our results also indicated the potential of EENF in enhancing the yield of camelina, especially under CT system. Irrespective of tillage system and source of N, application of 90 kg N ha−1 (minus soil mineral N) led to the highest yield of camelina in this environment, but yield gain in response to N application greater than 45 kg ha−1 was very small.
Although phenolic compounds linked to proteins or polysaccharides in the cell wall from herbal plant through β-glycoside bonds are difficult to extract in aqueous solution, microorganisms that produce some key enzymes may be useful for enhancing the release of phenolic compounds. Solid-state fermentation with a combination of different microorganisms was used to promote the bioactivities of the polyphenol component in GL. The results showed that co-fermentation of GL with Monascus anka GIM 3.592 and Saccharomyces cerevisiae GIM 2.139 led to a significant increase in contents of quercetin and total polyphenols. Including gallic acid, chlorogenic acid, rutin, isoquercitrin, avicularin, quercitrin, kaempferol, and quercetin, all polyphenols extracted from fermented guava leaves (FGL) were quantitatively identified by high-performance liquid chromatography time-of-flight electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (HPLC-TOF-ESI/MS). Quercetin, which presented the highest bioactivity, was significantly increased after microbial conversion. Total polyphenols extracted from FGL showed higher bioactivities in scavenging 1,1-Diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and 2,2-Azino-bis 3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid diammonium salt (ABTS) caption radicals, anti-bacterial activity, and α-glucosidase inhibitory activity than those from GL. The activities of total polyphenols extracted from FGL by methanol were determined by calculating the IC50, with the highest values found to be 30.57 μg/mL, 24.53 μg/mL, and 0.09 mg/mL for the scavenging of DPPH and ABTS+ radicals and inhibition of α-glucosidase, respectively. Methanol was more effective for extracting components with high α-glucosidase inhibitory activities than acetone. The methanol extract (0.20 mg/mL) efficiently inhibited 92.05% of α-glucosidase activity, which was significantly higher than that obtained using acarbose solution at an equal concentration. This microbial co-fermentation method can be used to upgrade the nutritional or medicinal values of herb leaves efficiently.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of dementia of adult-onset, characterized by progressive impairment in cognition and memory. There is no cure for the disease and the current treatments are only symptomatic. Drug discovery is an expensive and time-consuming process; in the last decade no new drugs have been found for AD despite the efforts of the scientific community and pharmaceutical companies. The Aβ immunotherapy is one of the most promising approaches to modify the course of AD. This therapeutic strategy uses synthetic peptides or monoclonal antibodies (mAb) to decrease the Aβ load in the brain and slow the progression of the disease. Therefore, this article will discuss the main aspects of AD neuropathogenesis, the classical pharmacologic treatment, as well as the active and passive immunization describing drug prototypes evaluated in different clinical trials. La enfermedad de Alzheimer (EA) es la forma más frecuente de demencia de inicio en el adulto, caracterizada por un deterioro progresivo en la cognición y la memoria. No hay cura para la enfermedad y los tratamientos actuales son sólo sintomáticos. El descubrimiento de fármacos es un proceso costoso y que consume mucho tiempo; en la última década no se han encontrado nuevos fármacos para la EA a pesar de los esfuerzos de la comunidad científica y las compañías farmacéuticas. La inmunoterapia contra Aβ es uno de los enfoques más prometedores para modificar el curso de la EA. Esta estrategia terapéutica utiliza péptidos sintéticos o anticuerpos monoclonales (mAb) para disminuir la carga de Aβ en el cerebro y retardar la progresión de la enfermedad. Por lo tanto, este artículo discutirá los principales aspectos de la neuropatogénesis de la EA, el tratamiento farmacológico clásico, así como la inmunización activa y pasiva describiendo los prototipos de fármacos evaluados en diferentes ensayos clínicos.
Recently, a selective preferential accumulation of polymeric nanoparticles (in the size range around 100 nm) has been observed in the follicular system of dermatitis skin. The present investigation aimed at clearly investigating the effect of irritant contact dermatitis on the barrier permeability for colloidal systems below this size range, namely quantum dots and hydrophilic macromolecules. Irritant dermatitis was induced in mice and the penetrability of quantum dots (5 nm) and hydrophilic dextran molecules has been tracked in both healthy and inflamed skin using confocal laser scanning microscopy. The selective accumulation of the quantum dots was clearly observed in inflamed skin while hydrophilic dextran behaved similarly in both healthy and inflamed skin. The therapeutic potential for the transdermal delivery of peptide drugs through inflamed skin has been also tested in rats. Results revealed that the transdermal permeation of insulin and calcitonin was not significantly enhanced in dermatitis compared to healthy skin. On the other side, permeation through stripped skin was significantly higher. However, the effect was limited and shorter compared to the SC injection where tmin was 0.5 h and 2 h with a 70% and 46% reduction in blood glucose levels for the stripped skin and the SC injection respectively. Similarly, tmin was 4 h and 8 h with area under the curve of 161 ± 65% and 350 ± 97% for the stripped skin and the SC injection respectively. In conclusion, the changes in skin permeability accompanied with skin inflammation did not affect its permeability to peptide drugs. Our findings also underline that experiments with the tape stripped skin model as a surrogate for inflamed skin can risk misleading conclusions due to significant difference of skin permeability between the tape stripped skin and inflamed skin.
Alpinia guinanensis is widely used as an ornamental plant, food spice and folk medicine in China. This study aimed to explore the leaves EO of A. guinanensis as a potential biopreservative. The chemical composition, antibacterial activity, mechanism and hemolysis of the leaves EO were studied for the first time, respectively. Gas chromatography (GC) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC–MS) indicated the major constituents were 1,8-cineole (43.11%), α-phellandrene (17.17%) and β-pinene (14.51%). The leaves EO demonstrated broad-spectrum antibacterial activity against tested foodborne pathogenic bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus subtilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli) with minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) ranging from 2.5 mg/mL to 5.0 mg/mL and diameter of inhibition zone (DIZ) from 16.5 mm to 23 mm. The DIZ of the leaves EO (23.0 mm) against Staphylococcus aureus was notably larger than that of antibiotic streptomycin (18.3 mm). Scanning electron microscope (SEM) observation and cell permeability assay indicated the leaves EO increased membrane permeability, resulting in bacteria lysis and leakage of intracellular electrolytes. The leaves EO caused rapid increase in the electric conductivity in the first 2 h and the value reached 66.5% after 7 h. This mechanism of the leaves EO differed from the antibiotic streptomycin which inhibited protein synthesis. The low hemolytic rate (below 1%) of the leaves EO on human red blood cells (hRBCs) further suggested its safety. In general, the leaves EO of A. guinanensis may provide a natural and safe biopreservative in food industry.
In this present study, the secretory transport of P-gp substrates, rhodamine 123 and digoxin, was evaluated using a Caco-2/HT29-MTX co-culture characterized by an efflux mechanism and a paracellular permeability closer to the human intestinal barrier compared to the Caco-2 monolayer gold standard. The influence of simulated intestinal fluids termed FeSSIF and FaSSIF on the intestinal absorption was also assessed in comparison with a conventional saline buffer. Labrasol® ALF and Gelucire® 44/14 in saline buffer significantly decreased to 83% and 62%, the P-gp-mediated transport of rhodamine 123 across the co-culture, respectively. The effects of Gelucire® 44/14 were much more exacerbated with the Caco-2 monolayer model with a reduced permeability to 34% but they were partially reversed in the co-culture with FeSSIF. The modulation by the lipid excipients of digoxin secretory transport across the Caco-2 monolayer and the co-culture was reduced compared with the rhodamine 123. This work also emphasizes the numerous parameters that have to be considered for predicting accurately the effects of potential P-gp inhibitors including the in-vitro model, the incubation media and the intrinsic properties of P-gp substrates.
The main cause of multidrug resistance (MDR) is overexpression of active efflux transporters, such as P-glycoprotein (P-gp). To reverse MDR and improve the chemotherapy effect of paclitaxel (PTX), we propose a new drug delivery system based on mixed micelles constructed with D-α-tocopheryl poly(ethylene glycol) 1000 succinate (TPGS) and the mPEG-SS-PTX conjugate with consideration that TPGS is a P-gp inhibitor that can block the cancer cell action of pumping drugs outside of cells and can enhance the anticancer effect. mPEG-SS-PTX is synthesized by conjugating hydrophilic mPEG with a hydrophobic drug, PTX, via a redox-sensitive disulfide bond. The mPEG-SS-PTX conjugate is amphiphilic and can self-assemble in water. Mixed micelles formed by the mPEG-SS-PTX conjugate and TPGS have a low critical micelle concentration (CMC, ∼1.05 × 10−3 mg/mL) and high drug loading content (∼19.6%). The disulfide bond in the mPEG-SS-PTX conjugate can be broken in cancer cells (a reductive environment) and release PTX to kill cancer cells. In vitro cytotoxicity and cell uptake suggest that mixed micelles can effectively improve the accumulation of PTX in multidrug-resistant MCF-7 cells. Therefore, the present as-prepared mixed micelles very effectively reverse the MDR and enhance the therapeutic effect.
Background: Gene annotations, such as those in GENCODE, are derived primarily from alignments of spliced cDNA sequences and protein sequences. The impact of RNA-seq data on annotation has been confined to major projects like ENCODE and Illumina Body Map 2.0. Results: We aligned 21,504 Illumina-sequenced human RNA-seq samples from the Sequence Read Archive (SRA) to the human genome and compared detected exon-exon junctions with junctions in several recent gene annotations. We found 56,861 junctions (18.6%) in at least 1000 samples that were not annotated, and their expression associated with tissue type. Junctions well expressed in individual samples tended to be annotated. Newer samples contributed few novel well-supported junctions, with the vast majority of detected junctions present in samples before 2013. We compiled junction data into a resource called intropolis available at http://intropolis.rail.bio. We used this resource to search for a recently validated isoform of the ALK gene and characterized the potential functional implications of unannotated junctions with publicly available TRAP-seq data. Conclusions: Considering only the variation contained in annotation may suffice if an investigator is interested only in well-expressed transcript isoforms. However, genes that are not generally well expressed and nonetheless present in a small but significant number of samples in the SRA are likelier to be incompletely annotated. The rate at which evidence for novel junctions has been added to the SRA has tapered dramatically, even to the point of an asymptote. Now is perhaps an appropriate time to update incomplete annotations to include splicing present in the now-stable snapshot provided by the SRA.
Purpose: Stargardt disease (STGD) is a common macular dystrophy in juveniles that is commonly inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Mutations in five genes (ABCA4, PROM1, ELOVL4, BEST1, and PRPH2) have been reported to be associated with STGD. In the present study, we aimed to identify the pathogenic mutations in affected members in a Chinese STGD pedigree. Methods: One patient was selected for whole-exome sequencing. Variants in five candidate genes were identified initially, followed by several filtering steps against public and private variation databases (1000Genomes, ESP6500si, ExAC, and in-house database), as well as bioinformatic analysis of the putative pathogenic roles. Sanger sequencing was used for cosegregation analysis among all members with available DNA. Results: Two mutations in ABCA4 (NM_000350.2; c.5646G>A; p.Met1882Ile and NM_000350.2; c.3523–2A>G) were found using whole-exome sequencing. Cosegregation analysis confirmed all the affected members carried the compound heterozygous mutations while the other healthy members had at most one. The missense mutation was extremely rare in public databases and predicted to be deleterious. The splice-site mutation was absent from all public and private databases and was predicted to alter the splice pattern, resulting in an exon skip and a frameshift. Conclusions: Using whole-exome sequencing, we found novel compound heterozygous mutations in ABCA4 in a Chinese STGD pedigree. These mutations are reported for the first time, therefore widening the mutation spectrum of Stargardt disease. The present study also illustrates the potential of whole-exome sequencing in determining the genetic cause of STGD.
Poor maintenance of cytotoxic factor expression among HIV-specific CD8+ T cells, in part caused by dysregulated expression of the transcription factor T-bet, is associated with HIV disease progression. However, the precise evolution and context in which CD8+ T cell cytotoxic functions become dysregulated in HIV infection remain unclear. Using the rhesus macaque (RM) SIV infection model, we evaluated the kinetics of SIV-specific CD8+ T cell cytolytic factor expression in peripheral blood, lymph node, spleen, and gut mucosa from early acute infection through chronic infection. We identified rapid acquisition of perforin and granzyme B expression in SIV-specific CD8+ T cells in blood, secondary lymphoid tissues and gut mucosa that collapsed rapidly during the transition to chronic infection. The evolution of this expression profile was linked to low expression of T-bet and occurred independent of epitope specificity, viral escape patterns and tissue origin. Importantly, during acute infection SIV-specific CD8+ T cells that maintained T-bet expression retained the ability to express granzyme B after stimulation, but this relationship was lost in chronic infection. Together, these data demonstrate the loss of cytolytic machinery in SIV-specific CD8+ T cells in blood and at tissue sites of viral reservoir and active replication during the transition from acute to chronic infection. This phenomenon occurs despite persistent high levels of viremia suggesting that an inability to maintain properly regulated cytotoxic T cell responses in all tissue sites enables HIV/SIV to avoid immune clearance, establish persistent viral reservoirs in lymphoid tissues and gut mucosa, and lead ultimately to immunopathogenesis and death.
Objective: To investigate the effects of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (ω-3 PUFA) supplementation on neuron apoptosis, brain edema, activation of microglia, inflammatory response and neural function after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats, so as to understand the protection of ω-3 PUFA in rats following TBI and its mechanism. Methods: TBI model was established using Feeney's method. Ninety SD rats were randomly divided into 5 groups: sham operation group (sham group), TBI group, TBI + selective activator of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) anisomycin group (TBI + Aniso group), TBI + ω-3 PUFA supplementation group (TBI + ω-3 group), and TBI + ω-3 PUFA supplementation + JNK activation group (TBI + ω-3 + Aniso group). We measured rat behavioral outcomes by modified neurological severity score (mNSS) on day 1, 3, and 7 after TBI. Brain water content was measured with wet-dry weight method. The neuron apoptosis and microglial activation (identified by specific marker IBA-1) in TBI cerebral cortex were determined by TUNEL staining and immunofluorescence. Inflammatory cytokines [tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin (IL) -1α, IL-1β, and IL-6] and the JNK signaling pathway (JNK, pJNK) were tested with reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot, respectively. Results: Compared with the sham group, the levels of brain cell apoptosis, brain edema, neuron apoptosis, and inflammatory-relatived factors (TNF-α, IL-1α, IL-1β, and IL-6) were significantly increased in the other four groups (P <0.05). Compared with the TBl group, ω-3 PUFA supplementation reduced brain water content following TBI, especially on day 3 after TBI [(78.14 ï¿½0.57)% vs. (82.31 ï¿½0.81)%, P <0.01], and improved neurological function score (P < 0.05). Meanwhile, ω-3 PUFA supplementation suppressed neuron apoptosis, the activation of microglia, and the mRNA and protein expressions of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-6). The activation of JNK signaling pathway was also inhibited by ω-3 PUFA. Conclusion: ω-3 PUFA supplementation may markedly reduce brain edema, suppress neuron apoptosis, and improve neurological outcomes after TBI in rats, possibly mediated by inhibiting JNK signaling pathway and microglial activation, reducing microglia-induced cerebral inflammatory responses, demonstrated as down-regulated expression of TNF-α, IL-1α, IL-1β, and IL-6.
Background: Increased circulatory levels of the chemokine CXCL4 have been associated with the presence of interstitial lung disease (ILD) in an observational study of patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc). The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the relationship between baseline CXCL4 level and extent of ILD in the context of a randomized controlled trial and to determine whether changes in CXCL4 levels in response to immunosuppression are associated with future progression of SSc-ILD. Methods: A total of 142 SSc-ILD patients from Scleroderma Lung Study (SLS) II were randomized in a double-blind, parallel-arm trial, to receive mycophenolate (MMF) for 2years or oral cyclophosphamide (CYC) for 1year followed by 1year of placebo. Plasma CXCL4 levels were measured at baseline, 12months, and 24months in SLS II participants (N=136) and at a single time point in healthy controls (N=67). A mixed-effects model evaluated the relationship between change in CXCL4 levels and SSc-ILD progression. The primary outcome was the course of the forced vital capacity. Results: Baseline CXCL4 levels were significantly higher in SSc-ILD patients compared with healthy controls (2699±1489ng/ml vs 2233±1351ng/ml (mean±SD); P=0.019). However, no significant correlations were identified between CXCL4 levels and extent of ILD at baseline, as measured by the forced vital capacity, diffusing capacity of carbon monoxide, or radiographic extent of ILD. Plasma CXCL4 decreased significantly from baseline to 12months in all patients (CYC: P<0.001; MMF: P=0.006) with no between-treatment differences (CYC vs MMF). Patients with the largest decline in CXCL4 levels during the first 12months had an improved course of forced vital capacity %-predicted from 12 to 24months (P=0.040), even after adjusting for baseline disease severity and treatment arm assignment. Conclusions: Levels of CXCL4 were higher in patients with SSc-ILD compared with controls and decreased in all patients treated with immunosuppressive therapy. While CXCL4 levels were not correlated with extent of ILD at baseline, changes in CXCL4 at 12months predicted future progression of SSc-ILD from 12 to 24months. These findings suggest that intermediate-term changes in CXCL4 may have predictive significance for long-term progression of SSc-ILD in patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy. Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00883129. Registered 16 April 2009.
, part of Springer Nature. All rights reserved.The all-atom additive CHARMM36 protein force field is widely used in molecular modeling and simulations. We present its refinement, CHARMM36m (http://mackerell.umaryland.edu/charmm-ff.shtml), with improved accuracy in generating polypeptide backbone conformational ensembles for intrinsically disordered peptides and proteins.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
, part of Springer Nature. All rights reserved. Genome-scale human protein-protein interaction networks are critical to understanding cell biology and interpreting genomic data, but challenging to produce experimentally. Through data integration and quality control, we provide a scored human protein-protein interaction network (InWeb-InBioMap, or InWeb-IM) with severalfold more interactions (>500,000) and better functional biological relevance than comparable resources. We illustrate that InWeb-InBioMap enables functional interpretation of >4,700 cancer genomes and genes involved in autism.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
During hematopoiesis, the balance between proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis is tightly regulated in order to maintain homeostasis. Failure in these processes can ultimately lead to uncontrolled proliferation and leukemia. Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is one of the molecular pathways involved in this balance. By opposing PI3-kinases, PTEN inhibits proliferation and promotes differentiation and is thus considered a tumor suppressor. Indeed, PTEN is frequently mutated in many cancers, including leukemias. Loss of PTEN often leads to lymphoid cancers. However, little is known about the molecular events that regulate PTEN signaling during lymphopoiesis. In this study, we used zebrafish to address this. We report that N-myc downstream-regulated gene 1b (ndrg1b) rescues lymphoid differentiation after PTEN inhibition. We also show that a previously uncharacterized gene, fam49ab, inhibits T-cell differentiation, a phenotype that can be rescued by ndrg1b. We propose that ndrg1b and fam49ab are 2 new modulators of PTEN signaling that control lymphoid differentiation in the zebrafish thymus.
Protein E5 is a polytopic 83 amino acid membrane protein with three transmembrane domains (TMDs), encoded by high-risk human papillomavirus-16 (HPV-16). HPV-16 is found to be the causative agent for cervical cancer. Protein E5, among other proteins (e.g., E6, E7), is expressed at an "early" (E) stage when the cell turns malignant. It has been experimentally found that E5 forms hexameric assemblies, which show the characteristics of the class of so-called channel-forming proteins by rendering lipid membranes permeable to ions and small molecules. Protein E5 is used to achieve structural models of the protein in assembled bundles using a force field-based docking approach. Extended molecular dynamics simulations of selected bundles in fully hydrated lipid bilayers suggest the second TMD to be pore-lining, allowing for water columns to exist within the lumen of the pore. Full correlation analysis indicates asymmetric dynamics within the monomers of the bundle. Potential of mean force calculations of a snapshot structure of the putative open pore of the protein bundle propose low selectivity.
Autosomal dominant hyper-IgE syndrome (AD-HIES) is caused by dominant-negative mutations in STAT3; however, the molecular basis for mutant STAT3 allele dysfunction is unclear and treatment remains supportive. We hypothesized that AD-HIES mutations decrease STAT3 protein stability and that mutant STAT3 activity can be improved by agents that increase chaperone protein activity. We used computer modeling to characterize the effect of STAT3 mutations on protein stability. We measured STAT3 protein half-life (t1/2) and determined levels of STAT3 phosphorylated on tyrosine (Y) 705 (pY-STAT3) and mRNA levels of STAT3 gene targets in Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B (EBV) cells, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and mouse splenocytes incubated without or with chaperone protein modulators - HSF1A, a small-molecule TRiC modulator, or geranylgeranylacetone (GGA), a drug that upregulates heat shock protein (HSP) 70 and HSP90. Computer modeling predicted that 81% of AD-HIES mutations are destabilizing. STAT3 protein t1/2 in EBV cells from AD-HIES patients with destabilizing STAT3 mutations was markedly reduced. Treatment of EBV cells containing destabilizing STAT3 mutations with either HSF1A or GGA normalized STAT3 t1/2, increased pY-STAT3 levels, and increased mRNA levels of STAT3 target genes up to 79% of control. In addition, treatment of human PBMCs or mouse splenocytes containing destabilizing STAT3 mutations with either HSF1A or GGA increased levels of cytokine-activated pY-STAT3 within human CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and numbers of IL-17-producing CD4+ mouse splenocytes, respectively. Thus, most AD-HIES STAT3 mutations are destabilizing; agents that modulate chaperone protein function improve STAT3 stability and activity in T cells and may provide a specific treatment.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
The evolutionarily conserved Bucentaur (BCNT) protein superfamily was identified about two decades ago in bovines, but its biological role has long remained largely unknown. Sparse studies in the literature suggest that BCNT proteins perform important functions during development. Only recently, a functional analysis of the Drosophila BCNT ortholog, called YETI, has provided evidence that it is essential for proper fly development and plays roles in chromatin organization. Here, we introduce the BCNT proteins and comprehensively review data that contribute to clarify their function and mechanistic clues on how they may control development in multicellular organisms.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research.We have recently identified lens epithelium-derived growth factor (LEDGF/p75, also known as PSIP1) as a component of the homologous recombination DNA repair machinery. Through its Pro-Trp-Trp-Pro (PWWP) domain, LEDGF/p75 binds to histone marks associated with active transcription and promotes DNA end resection by recruiting DNA endonuclease retinoblastoma-binding protein 8 (RBBP8/CtIP) to broken DNA ends. Here we show that the structurally related PWWP domain-containing protein, hepatoma-derived growth factor-related protein 2 (HDGFRP2), serves a similar function in homologous recombination repair. Its depletion compromises the survival of human U2OS osteosarcoma and HeLa cervix carcinoma cells and impairs the DNA damage-induced phosphorylation of replication protein A2 (RPA2) and the recruitment of DNA endonuclease RBBP8/CtIP to DNA double strand breaks. In contrast to LEDGF/p75, HDGFRP2 binds preferentially to histone marks characteristic for transcriptionally silent chromatin. Accordingly, HDGFRP2 is found in complex with the heterochromatin-binding chromobox homologue 1 (CBX1) and Pogo transposable element with ZNF domain (POGZ). Supporting the functionality of this complex, POGZ-depleted cells show a similar defect in DNA damage-induced RPA2 phosphorylation as HDGFRP2-depleted cells. These data suggest that HDGFRP2, possibly in complex with POGZ, recruits homologous recombination repair machinery to damaged silent genes or to active genes silenced upon DNA damage.
2014 by the authors; licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. A method was developed for determining the composition of the conjugates between gold nanoparticles and proteins based on the intrinsic fluorescence of unbound protein molecules. The fluorescence was evaluated after separation of the conjugates from the reaction mixture by centrifugation. Gold nanoparticles obtained using the citrate technique (average diameter 24 nm) were conjugated at pH 5.4 with the following four proteins: human immunoglobulin G (IgG), bovine serum albumin (BSA), recombinant streptococcal protein G (protein G), and Kunitz-type soybean trypsin inhibitor (STI). The compositions of these conjugates were determined using the developed method. The conjugate compositions were dependent on the concentration of the added protein, and in all cases reached saturation. The equilibrium dissociation constants of the gold nanoparticle conjugates with IgG, BSA, protein G, STI in the initial section of the concentration dependence curve were 4, 6, 10, and 15 nM, respectively. Close to saturation, the corresponding values were 25, 76, 175, and 100 nM, respectively. The maximal binding capacities of a single gold nanoparticle for IgG, BSA, Protein G, and STI were 52, 90, 500, and 550, respectively, which agrees well with the hypothesis of monolayer immobilization.
Polymers and proteins have both similarities and differences with conformation and order formation. We perform molecular dynamics simulation of gelation process and also of aggregation of proteins. By discussing the results of the simulation, we obtain some insight into the difference of order formation of polymers and proteins.
The unfolded protein response (UPR) has been extensively investigated in neurological diseases and diabetes, while its function in heart disease is less well understood. Activated UPR participates in multiple cardiac conditions and can either protect or impair heart function. Recently, the UPR has been found to play a role in arrhythmogenesis during human heart failure by affecting cardiac ion channels expression, and blocking UPR has an antiarrhythmic effect. This review will discuss the rationale for and challenges to targeting UPR in heart disease for treatment of arrhythmias.
A number of studies have demonstrated that various components of the ATRX/DAXX/Histone H3.3 complex are important for heterochromatin silencing at multiple genomic regions. We provide an overview of the individual components (ATRX, DAXX and/or H3.3) tested in each study and propose a model where the ATRX/DAXX chaperone complex deposits H3.3 to maintain the H3K9me3 modification at heterochromatin throughout the genome.
Kainate receptors (KARs) are a subfamily of glutamate receptors mediating excitatory synaptic transmission and Neto proteins are recently identified auxiliary subunits for KARs. However, the roles of Neto proteins in the synaptic trafficking of KAR GluK1 are poorly understood. Here, using the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neuron as a null background system we find that surface expression of GluK1 receptor itself is very limited and is not targeted to excitatory synapses. Both Neto1 and Neto2 profoundly increase GluK1 surface expression and also drive GluK1 to synapses. However, the regulation GluK1 synaptic targeting by Neto proteins is independent of their role in promoting surface trafficking. Interestingly, GluK1 is excluded from synapses expressing AMPA receptors and is selectively incorporated into silent synapses. Neto2, but not Neto1, slows GluK1 deactivation, whereas Neto1 speeds GluK1 desensitization and Neto2 slows desensitization. These results establish critical roles for Neto auxiliary subunits controlling KARs properties and synaptic incorporation.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
The study of proteomes provides new insights into stimulus-specific responses of protein synthesis and turnover, and the role of post-translational modifications at the systems level. Due to the diverse chemical nature of proteins and shortcomings in the analytical techniques used in their study, only a partial display of the proteome is achieved in any study, and this holds particularly true for plant proteomes. Here we show that different solubilization and separation methods have profound effects on the resulting proteome. In particular, we observed that the type of detergents employed in the solubilization buffer preferentially enriches proteins in different functional categories. These include proteins with a role in signaling, transport, response to temperature stimuli and metabolism. This data may offer a functional bias on comparative analysis studies. In order to obtain a broader coverage, we propose a two-step solubilization protocol with first a detergent-free buffer and then a second step utilizing a combination of two detergents to solubilize proteins.
We here describe the amyloid fibrils promoting behavior of curcumin, which ability to inhibit amyloid fibrillization of several globular proteins is well documented. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), 90° light scattering (RLS), thioflavine T (ThT) and Congo red (CR) binding studies demonstrated that both F (pH 3.4) and E (pH 1.8) isomers of human serum albumin (HSA) in the absence and presence of curcumin initially converted into amorphous aggregates. Interestingly, only the sample containing F isomer preincubated with curcumin formed fibrils on incubation for longer period. We also found that curcumin strongly bind to the F isomer, alter its secondary, tertiary structures and thermal stability. We conclude that the conversion of intermediate states into amorphous aggregate to fibrils is dictated by its conformation. This study provides unique insights into ligand-controlled HSA aggregation pathway and should provide a useful model system to study both amorphous and the fibrillar aggregation of multidomain proteins.
Clustering over protein or gene data is now a popular issue in biomedical databases. In general large set of gene tags are clustered using high computation techniques over gene or protein distributed data. Most of the traditional clustering techniques based on subspace, hierarchical and partitioning feature extraction. Various clustering techniques have been proposed in the literature with different cluster measures, but the performance is limited due to its spatial noise and uncertainty. In this paper, an improved graph based clustering technique was proposed to generate efficient gene or protein clusters over uncertain and noisy data. Proposed graph based visualization can effectively identify different types of genes or proteins along with relational attributes. Experimental results show proposed graph model effectively clusters the complex gene or protein data compare to conventional clustering approaches.
The cellular mechanisms that control protein degradation may constitute a non-oncogenic cancer cell vulnerability and, therefore, a therapeutic target. Although this proposition is supported by the clinical success of proteasome inhibitors in some malignancies, most cancers are resistant to proteasome inhibition. The ATPase valosin-containing protein (VCP; p97) is an essential regulator of protein degradation in multiple pathways and has emerged as a target for cancer therapy. We found that pharmacological depletion of VCP enzymatic activity with mechanistically different inhibitors robustly induced proteotoxic stress in solid cancer and multiple myeloma cells, including cells that were insensitive, adapted, or clinically resistant to proteasome inhibition. VCP inhibition had an impact on two key regulators of protein synthesis, eukaryotic initiation factor 2α (eIF2α) and mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), and attenuated global protein synthesis. However, a block on protein translation that was itself cytotoxic alleviated stress signaling and reduced cell death triggered by VCP inhibition. Some of the proteotoxic effects of VCP depletion depended on the eIF2α phosphatase, protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 15A (PPP1R15A)/PP1c, but not on mTORC1, although there appeared to be cross-talk between them. Thus, cancer cell death following VCP inhibition was linked to inadequate fine-tuning of protein synthesis and activity of PPP1R15A/PP1c. VCP inhibitors also perturbed intracellular amino acid levels, activated eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2α kinase 4 (EIF2AK4), and enhanced cellular dependence on amino acid supplies, consistent with a failure of amino acid homeostasis. Many of the observed effects of VCP inhibition differed from the effects triggered by proteasome inhibition or by protein misfolding. Thus, depletion of VCP enzymatic activity triggers cancer cell death in part through inadequate regulation of protein synthesis and amino acid metabolism. The data provide novel insights into the maintenance of intracellular proteostasis by VCP and may have implications for the development of anti-cancer therapies.
Accumulation of the misfolded prion protein, PrPSc in the central nervous system (CNS) is strongly linked to progressive neurodegenerative disease. For many transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), peripheral lymphoid tissue is an important site of PrPSc amplification but without gross immunological consequence. Susceptible VRQ homozygous New Zealand Cheviot sheep were infected with SSBP/1 scrapie by inoculation in the drainage area of the prescapular lymph nodes. The earliest time that PrPSc was consistently detected by immunohistology in these nodes was D50 post infection. This transcriptomic study of lymph node taken before (D10) and after (D50) the detection of PrPSc, aimed to identify the genes and physiological pathways affected by disease progression within the nodes as assessed by PrPSc detection. Affymetrix Ovine Gene arrays identified 75 and 80 genes as differentially-expressed at D10 and D50, respectively, in comparison with control sheep inoculated with uninfected brain homogenate. Approximately 70% of these were repressed at each time point. RT-qPCR analysis of seven genes showed statistically significant correlation with the array data, although the results for IL1RN and TGIF were different between the two technologies. The ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) and general low level of repression of gene expression in lymphoid tissue, including many inflammatory genes, contrasts with the pro-inflammatory and pro-apoptotic events that occur within the CNS at equivalent stages of disease progression as assessed by PrPSc accumulation.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
The increased interest in studying membrane proteins has led to the development of new membrane mimics such as bicelles and nanodiscs. However, only limited knowledge is available of how these membrane mimics are affected by embedded proteins and how well they mimic a lipid bilayer. Herein, we present molecular dynamics simulations to elucidate structural and dynamic properties of small bicelles and compare them to a large alignable bicelle, a small nanodisc, and a lipid bilayer. Properties such as lipid packing and properties related to embedding both an α-helical peptide and a transmembrane protein are investigated. The small bicelles are found to be very dynamic and mainly assume a prolate shape substantiating that small bicelles cannot be regarded as well-defined disclike structures. However, addition of a peptide results in an increased tendency to form disc-shaped bicelles. The small bicelles and the nanodiscs show increased peptide solvation and difference in peptide orientation compared to embedding in a bilayer. The large bicelle imitated a bilayer well with respect to both curvature and peptide solvation, although peripheral binding of short tailed lipids to the embedded proteins is observed, which could hinder ligand binding or multimer formation.
Amyloids are insoluble and misfolded fibrous protein aggregates and associated with more than 20 serious human diseases. We perform all-atom molecular dynamics simulations of amyloid fibril assembly and disassembly.
A bio array sensing system is newly composed utilizing different phospholipid liposomes encapsulating fluorescent molecules. We have confirmed a high output intensity of fluorescence emission due to the characteristics dependent on the concentration of fluorescent molecules when the fluorescent molecules leak from inside of the liposome through perturbed lipid membrane. After measuring a whole array image of fluorescence emission output from every element of liposome sensor by a new CMOS imager system, the outputs of fluorescence emission from all the elements were analyzed by a statistical method of principal component analysis (PCA). It was found from obtained PCA plots that different species of proteins with several concentrations were discriminated with high cumulative contribution ratio.
Folding and aggregation of proteins profoundly influence their functions. We have investigated the effects of thermal history, concentration and pH on the denaturation and refolding of lysozyme by using ultrasensitive differential scanning calorimetry (US-DSC) and sedimentation velocity (SV) via analytical ultracentrifugation (AUC). The former is sensitive to small energy change whereas the latter can differentiate the oligomers such as dimer and trimer from individual protein molecules. Our studies reveal that the degree of denaturation irreversibility increases as heating times increases. The denaturation temperature (Td) and enthalpy change (ΔH) are influenced by heating rate since the denaturation is not in equilibrium during the heating. We can obtain Td and ΔH in equilibrium by extrapolation of heating rate to zero. In a dilute solution, no aggregation but unfolding happens in the denaturation. However, when the concentration is above a critical value (∼15.0 mg/mL), lysozyme molecules readily form trimers or other oligomers. Lysozyme molecules unfold into stretched chains at pH > 6.0, which would further forms large aggregates. The formation of aggregates makes the refolding of lysozyme impossible.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Using salivary beta-amyloid peptides, the results to diagnose AD are briefly introduced. The quantity of AD peptides in the saliva of normal young man (nYM, normal elderly (nE) group and AD patients is measured in the range from very low concentration (∼pg/ml) to high concentration (∼ng/ml). For about 100 persons, nYM group and AD patients are below ∼30pg/ml and ∼ng/ml, respectively. In protein sequencing, other peptides are founded in the saliva that can distinguish between normal and AD patients.
Fractal capacitive electrodes have been successfully integrated into a digital microfluidic open-platform. These electrodes perform actuation and withstand voltages up to 300V without insulation-layer breakdown. They were used to quantify the concentration levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) to determine the risk of cardiovascular disease. The capacitance increased sevenfold and stabilized in less than 5 minutes. The sensor shows a decreasing trend of capacitance readouts with the increase of concentrations. The same immunoassay was tested with untreated electrodes and showed no significant response, which suggests that immobilization was necessary. This configuration allows the electrodes to be used as biosensors.
We evaluated the synergistic antibacterial effect in combination with the chitosan-ferulic acid conjugate (CFA) and β-lactam antibiotics, such as ampicillin, penicillin, and oxacillin, against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) using fractional inhibitory concentration (FIC) indices. CFA clearly reversed the antibacterial activity of ampicillin, penicillin, and oxacillin against MRSA in the combination mode. Among these antibiotics, the combination of oxacillin-CFA resulted in a ΣFICmin range of 0.250 and ΣFICmax of 0.563, suggesting that the oxacillin-CFA combination resulted in an antibacterial synergy effect against MRSA. In addition, we determined that CFA inhibited the mRNA expression of gene mecA and the production of PBP2a, which is a key determinant for β-lactam antibiotic resistance, in a dosedependent manner. Thus, the results obtained in this study supported the idea on the antibacterial action mechanism that oxacillin will restore the antibacterial activity against MRSA through the suppression of PBP2a production by CFA.
Mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF) is a prosurvival protein that protects the cells when applied intracellularly in vitro or extracellularly in vivo. Its protective mechanisms are poorly known. Here we studied the role of two short sequence motifs within the carboxy-(C) terminal domain of MANF in its neuroprotective activity: the CKGC sequence (a CXXC motif) that could be involved in redox reactions, and the C-terminal RTDL sequence, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention signal. We mutated these motifs and analyzed the antiapoptotic effect and intracellular localization of these mutants of MANF when overexpressed in cultured sympathetic or sensory neurons. As an in vivo model for studying the effect of these mutants after their extracellular application, we used the rat model of cerebral ischemia. Even though we found no evidence for oxidoreductase activity of MANF, the mutation of CXXC motif completely abolished its protective effect, showing that this motif is crucial for both MANF's intracellular and extracellular activity. The RTDL motif was not needed for the neuroprotective activity of MANF after its extracellular application in the stroke model in vivo. However, in vitro the deletion of RTDL motif inactivated MANF in the sympathetic neurons where the mutant protein localized to Golgi, but not in the sensory neurons where the mutant localized to the ER, showing that intracellular MANF protects these peripheral neurons in vitro only when localized to the ER.
Abstract N2-Src is a poorly understood neuronal splice variant of the ubiquitous C-Src tyrosine kinase, containing a 17 amino acid insert in its Src homology 3 (SH3) domain. To characterise the properties of N2-Src we directly compared its SH3 domain specificity and kinase activity with C- and N1-Src in vitro. N2- and N1-Src had a similar low affinity for the phosphorylation of substrates containing canonical C-Src SH3 ligands and synaptophysin, an established neuronal substrate for C-Src. N2-Src also had a higher basal kinase activity than N1- and C-Src in vitro and in cells, which could be explained by weakened intramolecular interactions. Therefore, N2-Src is a highly active kinase that is likely to phosphorylate alternative substrates to C-Src in the brain.
Protoplasts have been a useful unicellular system for various molecular biological analyses based on transient expression and single cell analysis using fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), widely used as a powerful method in functional genomics. Despite the versatility of these methods, some limits based on low fluorescence intensity of a flow cytometric analysis (FCA) using protoplasts have been reported. In this study, the chloroplast targeting of fluorescent proteins (FPs) led to an eight-fold increase in fluorescence intensity and a 4.5-fold increase of transfection ratio from 14.7% to 65.7% as compared with their targeting into the cytoplasm. Moreover, the plot data of FCA shows that 83.3% of the K-sGFP population is under the threshold level, regarded as a non-transgenic population with background signals, while 65.7% of the K-sGFP population is spread on overall intervals. To investigate the reason underlying this finding, mRNA/protein levels and transfection efficiency were analyzed, and results suggest that mRNA/protein levels and transfection ratio are not much different between K-sGFP and KR-sGFP. From those results, we hypothesized that the difference of fluorescence intensity is not only derived from cellular events such as molecular level or transfection efficiency. Taken together, we suggest that the translocation of FPs into chloroplasts contributes to the improvement of fluorescence intensity in FCA and, apparently, plays an important role in minimizing the loss of the transfected population. Our study could be usefully applicable for highly sensitive FACS and FCA-investigations of green tissue.
However, about 10% of EGFR wild type (wt) patients respond to TKI, with unknown molecular mechanisms of sensitivity. We considered a case series of 34 EGFR wt NSCLC patients responsive to erlotinib after at least one line of therapy. Responsive patients were matched with an equal number of non-responsive EGFR wt patients. A panel of 26 genes, for a total of 214 somatic mutations, was analyzed by MassARRAY® System (Sequenom, San Diego, CA, USA). A 15% KRAS mutation was observed in both groups, with a prevalence of G12C in non-responders (80% vs. 40% in responders). NOTCH1, p53 and EGFR-resistance-related mutations were found more frequently in non-responders, whereas EGFR-sensitizing mutations and alterations in genes involved in proliferation pathways were more frequent in responders. In conclusion, our findings indicate that p53, NOTCH1 and exon 20 EGFR mutations seem to be related to TKI resistance. KRAS mutations do not appear to influence the TKI response, although G12C mutation is more frequent in non-responders. Finally, the use of highly sensitive methodologies could lead to the identification of under-represented EGFR mutations potentially associated with TKI sensitivity.
Reactivation of tumor-suppressor p53 for targeted cancer therapy is an attractive strategy for cancers bearing wild-type (WT) p53. Targeting the Mdm2-p53 interface or MdmX ((MDM4), mouse double minute 4)-p53 interface or both has been a focus in the field. However, targeting the E3 ligase activity of Mdm2-MdmX really interesting new gene (RING)-RING interaction as a novel anticancer strategy has never been explored. In this report, we describe the identification and characterization of small molecule inhibitors targeting Mdm2-MdmX RING-RING interaction as a new class of E3 ligase inhibitors. With a fluorescence resonance energy transfer-based E3 activity assay in high-throughput screening of a chemical library, we identified inhibitors (designated as MMRis (Mdm2-MdmX RING domain inhibitors)) that specifically inhibit Mdm2-MdmX E3 ligase activity toward Mdm2 and p53 substrates. MMRi6 and its analog MMRi64 are capable of disrupting Mdm2-MdmX interactions in vitro and activating p53 in cells. In leukemia cells, MMRi64 potently induces downregulation of Mdm2 and MdmX. In contrast to Nutlin3a, MMRi64 only induces the expression of pro-apoptotic gene PUMA (p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis) with minimal induction of growth-arresting gene p21. Consequently, MMRi64 selectively induces the apoptotic arm of the p53 pathway in leukemia/lymphoma cells. Owing to the distinct mechanisms of action of MMRi64 and Nutlin3a, their combination synergistically induces p53 and apoptosis. Taken together, this study reveals that Mdm2-MdmX has a critical role in apoptotic response of the p53 pathway and MMRi64 may serve as a new pharmacological tool for p53 studies and a platform for cancer drug development.
Hydrolysis of isolate soybean protein (ISP) using subcritical water (SCW) was conducted to study the feasibility for producing protein hydrolyzate. SCW hydrolysis of SPI suspension (5-15%) was conducted in an electrically heated batch reactor (2 L). The effects of temperature (230 to 270oC) and holding time (10 to 50 min) on the degree of hydrolysis (DH) and the production of amino acids were studied by surface response method. The DH was determined by derivatizing the hydrolyzates with ortho-phthalaldehyde (OPA) solution. It was confirmed that reaction temperature and holding time affected the hydrothermolysis of soybean protein. However, the holding time was less effective on amino acid yield when the temperature was higher than 230oC. In order to achieve optimal yields of amino acids exceeding 43%, the temperature should be within the range between 256 and 268oC with holding time from 29 to 41 min, respectively. A maximum estimated amino acid yield of 43.5% was obtained at 268oC for 35 min.
The cell cycle is one of the most fundamental processes in biology, underlying the proliferation and growth of all living organisms. In bacteria, the cell cycle has been extensively studied since the 1950s. Most of this research has focused on cell cycle regulation in a few model bacteria, cultured under standard growth conditions. However in nature, bacteria are exposed to drastic environmental changes. Recent work shows that by modulating their own growth and proliferation bacteria can increase their survival under stressful conditions, including antibiotic treatment. Here, we review the mechanisms that allow bacteria to integrate environmental information into their cell cycle. In particular, we focus on mechanisms controlling DNA replication and cell division. We conclude this chapter by highlighting the importance of understanding bacterial cell cycle and growth control for future research as well as other disciplines.
Hair cell mechanotransduction happens in tens of microseconds, involves forces of a few picoNewtons, and is mediated by nanometer-scale molecular conformational changes. As proteins involved in this process become identified and their high resolution structures become available, multiple tools are being used to explore their "single-molecule responses" to force. Optical tweezers and atomic force microscopy offer exquisite force and extension resolution, but cannot reach the high loading rates expected for high frequency auditory stimuli. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations can reach these fast time scales, and also provide a unique view of the molecular events underlying protein mechanics, but its predictions must be experimentally verified. Thus a combination of simulations and experiments might be appropriate to study the molecular mechanics of hearing. Here I review the basics of MD simulations and the different methods used to apply force and study protein mechanics in silico. Simulations of tip link proteins are used to illustrate the advantages and limitations of this method.
Clubroot disease is one of the most wide-spread and devastating diseases in the cultivation of Chinese cabbage. To develop a protein marker for resistance to clubroot disease in Chinese cabbage, a comparative proteome analysis was performed between a sensitive line, 94SK, and a resistant line, CR Shinki DH. Three proteins of two fold or higher accumulation that are specific to each line were found 3 days after innoculation of the Plasmodiphora brassicae. They are glutamine synthetase, malate dehydrogenase/ oxidoreductase and fructose-bisphosphate aldolase in the 94SK and actin, phosphoglycerate kinase, and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase in the CR Shinki line. From the comparison of the synthesized proteins in the 94SK and the CR Shinki, CR Shinki was found to produce more ATP-binding protein for the ABC transporter while 94SK showed a higher level of pathogenesis-related protein 1 production. All of these proteomic variations may lead to the development of molecular markers to accelerate the breeding process.
Food combined with soybean and milk can balance the proportion of amino acid reasonablely. The combination of animal protein and plant protein is conducive to the diet nutrition balance. In study, soymilk and cowmilk were used as raw materials and mixed, soymilk and cowmilk as control group respectively, glucono-δ-lactone (GDL) as the coagulant, texture characteristics and microstructure of gels were studied at different proportion of soymilk to cowmilk. Results showed that hardness, adhesive, chewiness, brittle, viscous and elastic of lactone soymilk and lactone cowmilk had significant differences. Along with the increasing of cowmilk content in the mixture, when the proportion of soymilk and cowmilk greater than 1:1, their proportion had significant effects on hardness, adhesive, chewiness, brittle, viscous and elastic. When the proportion of soymilk and cowmilk is less than 1:1, there is no significant difference. Cohesionef-fect always had no significant, difference. Combined determinations of texture characteristics with microstructure, when the proportion of cowmilk is 30%, the gel texture, surface structure and microstructure were good.
l-Pipecolic acid is a key component of biologically active molecules and a pharmaceutically important chiral building block. It can be stereoselectively produced from l-lysine by a two-step bioconversion involving l-lysine α-oxidase and ∆1-piperideine-2-carboxylae (Pip2C) reductase. In this study, we focused on an l-lysine α-oxidase from Scomber japonicus that was originally identified as an apoptosis-inducing protein (AIP) and applied the enzyme to one-pot fermentation of l-pipecolic acid in Escherichia coli. A synthetic gene coding for an AIP was expressed in E. coli, and the recombinant enzyme was purified and characterized. The purified enzyme was determined to be a homodimer with a molecular mass of 133.9 kDa. The enzyme essentially exhibited the same substrate specificity as the native enzyme. Optimal temperature and pH for the enzymatic reaction were 70 °C and 7.4, respectively. The enzyme was stable below 60 °C and at a pH range of 5.5–7.5 but was markedly inhibited by Co2+. To establish a one-pot fermentation system for the synthesis of optically pure l-pipecolic acid from dl-lysine, an E. coli strain carrying a plasmid encoding AIP, Pip2C reductase from Pseudomonas putida, lysine racemase from P. putida, and glucose dehydrogenase from Bacillus subtilis was constructed. The one-pot process produced 45.1 g/L of l-pipecolic acid (87.4 % yield from dl-lysine) after a 46-h reaction with high optical purity (>99.9 % enantiomeric excess).
Currently, there is no reliable biomarker for use in diagnosing alpha-fetoprotein (AFP)-negative hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Such a biomarker would aid in making an early diagnosis of AFP-negative HCC, ensuring the timely initiation of treatment. This study examined AFP-L3 and Golgi protein 73 (GP73) as candidate biomarkers for AFP-negative HCC. The affinity adsorption method and enzyme-linked immunoassays were separately used to determine serum levels of AFP-L3 and GP73 in 50 patients with AFP-negative HCC, 30 non-HCC patients, and 50 healthy subjects. Fifty percent of patients with AFP-negative HCC tested positive for AFP-L3, while 3.33% of non-HCC patients and 2.00% of healthy subjects were AFP-L3 positive. Patients with AFP-negative HCC had significantly higher serum levels of AFP-L3 compared to non-HCC patients and healthy individuals; however, there was no significant difference in the AFP-L3 levels of non-HCC patients and healthy subjects. Sixty-six percent of patients with AFP-negative HCC tested positive for GP73, while 10% of non-HCC patients and 0% of healthy subjects were GP73-positive. Patients with AFP-negative HCC had significantly higher serum levels of GP73 compared to non-HCC patients and healthy subjects, but there was no significant difference between the GP73 levels of non-HCC patients and healthy individuals. Moreover, 20 patients with AFP-negative HCC were both AFP-L3- and GP73-positive, while no non-HCC patients or healthy subjects tested positive for both markers. Either AFP-L3 or GP73 may be used as a biomarker for diagnosing AFP-negative HCC, while their combined use provides improved diagnostic accuracy and greater sensitivity.
Excess amount of Zinc is toxic and has negative effects on inhibition of growth, root development and may cause leaf chlorosis. The role of BABA in protecting tobacco seedling from high Zn2+ stress was studied and its working mechanism was explored through measuring antioxidative molecular content, antioxidative enzyme activities, concentration of Zn2+ in leaf and root and related gene expression. Results showed that 0.2 mmol/L BABA protected tobacco seedling from high-Zn2+ stress via increasing content of proline, GSH, total soluble protein and keeping MDA content at nearly normal level. Activities of CAT, POD and APX were reduced while SOD activity was increased, which raised signal molecule H2O2 content. BABA lowered Zn2+ concentration in leaf, but no obvious difference was found in root under high-Zn2+ stress by ICP-7300DV. In addition, gene expression indicated that the transcript level of PR1, PR2, NtMTP1A, NtMTP1B, NtC477 and NtYSL was higher than that of BABA untreated samples. It was suggested that the 0.2 mmol/L BABA was beneficial in alleviating high-Zn2+ stress in tobacco seedling by stimulating antioxidant system, restricting Zn2+ upper transportation and over expression genes of related ion transporters and pathogenesis-related proteins.
Salmonella enterica serovar Choleraesuis is considered as an important porcine pathogen that causes serious systemic infections and exhibits poor response to treatment because of an increase in multidrug resistance (MDR). Among the various regulators of resistance, multiple antibiotic resistance factor A (marA) and regulator of acetate metabolism A (ramA) are the most effective in conferring antibiotic tolerance by activation of multidrug efflux pumps. Here we investigated the regulation of virulence in Salmonella Choleraesuis through these two transcriptional regulators. We showed that marA andramA are important for the survival of Salmonella Choleraesuis in an environment of acid and bile salts, since marA- or ramA-deficient Salmonella Choleraesuis strains failed to increase protective responses, as observed by quantitative RT-PCR (qPCR). Further, reduced invasion and survival in host cells was observed in the marA and ramA mutant strains. The results from in vitrostudies with marA- and ramA-deficient strains showed attenuated characteristics in comparison to those in the wild-type strain of Salmonella Choleraesuis when it was used to challenge BALB/c mice. The mutant strains had higher LD50 and presented poor clearance efficiency compared to the parental strain. These findings indicate that MarA and RamA not only regulate drug resistance but also play a role in the virulence of SalmonellaCholeraesuis.
In this paper, the nutritional components of the mantle and tentacles of Octopus variabilis and Octopus ochellatus are comprehensively analyzed. The results show that: 1) the crude protein and crude fat contents of the mantle and tentacles of Octopus variabilis are respectively 14.47% and 13.58%, 0.55% and 0.34%; for Octopus ochellatus are 15.70% and 14.16%, 0.50% and 0.35%, respectively; the muscle of two kinds of octopus contain abundant macro and micro elements, in which the certain hazardous substances are lower than standard; 2) the ratio of EAA/NEAA of all four samples accorded with the amino acids mode recommended by FAO/WHO and Val is the first limited amino acid; the essential amino acids index(EAAI) of the mantle of Octopus ochellatus is highest among four samples and both Octopus variabilis and Octopus ochellatus are available resources of high quality protein; 3) both Octopus variabilis and Octopus ochellatus are rich in poly-unsaturated fatty acids, the content of EPA and DHA in the mantle and tentacles of Octopus variabilis are 36.00% and 41.33%; for Octopus ochellatus are 40.89% and 35.02%, respectively. An overall look into data obtained shows that both Octopus variabilis and Octopus ochellatus are two kinds of nutrient-rich seafood with higher protein and lower fat and they are worthy to popularization.
Background: Trichinella spiralis expresses paramyosin (Ts-Pmy) as a defense mechanism. Ts-Pmy is a functional protein with binding activity to human complement C8 and C9 and thus plays a role in evading the attack of the host’s immune system. In the present study, the binding activity of Ts-Pmy to human complement C1q and its ability to inhibit classical complement activation were investigated. Methods and Findings: The binding of recombinant and natural Ts-Pmy to human C1q were determined by ELISA, Far Western blotting and immunoprecipitation, respectively. Binding of recombinant Ts-Pmy (rTs-Pmy) to C1q inhibited C1q binding to IgM and consequently inhibited C3 deposition. The lysis of antibody-sensitized erythrocytes (EAs) elicited by the classical complement pathway was also inhibited in the presence of rTs-Pmy. In addition to inhibiting classical complement activation, rTs-Pmy also suppressed C1q binding to THP-1-derived macrophages, thereby reducing C1q-induced macrophages migration. Conclusion: Our results suggest that T. spiralis paramyosin plays an important role in immune evasion by interfering with complement activation through binding to C1q in addition to C8 and C9.
All living organisms synchronize biological functions with environmental changes; melatonin plays a vital role in regulating daily and seasonal variations. Due to rhythmic activity of the timezyme aralkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AANAT), the blood level of melatonin increases at night and decreases during daytime. Whereas other vertebrates have a single form of AANAT, bony fishes possess various isoforms of aanat genes, though the reasons are still unclear. Here, we have taken advantage of multiple unpublished teleost aanat sequences to explore and expand our understanding of the molecular evolution of aanat in fish. Our results confirm that two rounds of whole-genome duplication (WGD) led to the existence of three fish isoforms of aanat, i.e., aanat1a, aanat1b, and aanat2; in addition, gene loss led to the absence of some forms from certain special fish species. Furthermore, we suggest the different roles of two aanat1s in amphibious mudskippers, and speculate that the loss of aanat1a, may be related to terrestrial vision change. Several important sites of AANAT proteins and regulatory elements of aanat genes were analyzed for structural comparison and functional forecasting, respectively, which provides insights into the molecular evolution of the differences between AANAT1 and AANAT2.
Hypertension causes target organ damage (TOD) that involves vasculature, heart, brain and kidneys. Complex biochemical, hormonal and hemodynamic mechanisms are involved in the pathogenesis of TOD. Common to all these processes is an increased bioavailability of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Both in vitro and in vivo studies explored the role of mitochondrial oxidative stress as a mechanism involved in the pathogenesis of TOD in hypertension, especially focusing on atherosclerosis, heart disease, renal failure, cerebrovascular disease. Both dysfunction of mitochondrial proteins, such as uncoupling protein-2 (UCP2), superoxide dismutase (SOD) 2, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator 1-α (PGC-1α), calcium channels, and the interaction between mitochondria and other sources of ROS, such as NADPH oxidase, play an important role in the development of endothelial dysfunction, cardiac hypertrophy, renal and cerebral damage in hypertension. Commonly used anti-hypertensive drugs have shown protective effects against mitochondrial-dependent oxidative stress. Notably, few mitochondrial proteins can be considered therapeutic targets on their own. In fact, antioxidant therapies specifically targeted at mitochondria represent promising strategies to reduce mitochondrial dysfunction and related hypertensive TOD. In the present article, we discuss the role of mitochondrial oxidative stress as a contributing factor to hypertensive TOD development. We also provide an overview of mitochondria-based treatment strategies that may reveal useful to prevent TOD and reduce its progression.
As true for individuals that have experienced mild TBI, mice subjected to 50-60 psi blast show motor, visual and emotional deficits, diffuse axonal injury and microglial activation, but no overt neuron loss. Because microglial activation can worsen brain damage after a concussive event and because microglia can be modulated by their cannabinoid type 2 receptors (CB2), we evaluated the effectiveness of the novel CB2 receptor inverse agonist SMM-189 in altering microglial activation and mitigating deficits after mild TBI. In vitro analysis indicated that SMM-189 converted human microglia from the pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype to the pro-healing M2 phenotype. Studies in mice showed that daily administration of SMM-189 for two weeks beginning shortly after blast greatly reduced the motor, visual, and emotional deficits otherwise evident after 50-60 psi blasts, and prevented brain injury that may contribute to these deficits. Our results suggest that treatment with the CB2 inverse agonist SMM-189 after a mild TBI event can reduce its adverse consequences by beneficially modulating microglial activation. These findings recommend further evaluation of CB2 inverse agonists as a novel therapeutic approach for treating mild TBI.
Objective: To establish a rabbit model of diabetes mellitus in combination with syphilis for further monitoring the dynamic changes in rabbits' kidneys and investigating the possible pathogenic mechanism. Methods: Twenty-four male rabbits were divided into four groups including diabetes group (group DM, n=8), syphilis group (group T, n=5), diabetes mellitus in combination with syphilis group (group H, n=8) and control group (group C, n=3). The rabbit models for groups DM, T and H were respectively established by injecting rabbits with alloxan, Treponema pallidum strains and alloxan in combination with Treponema pallidum strains. Kidney damages in each rabbit were dynamically monitored. Immunohistochemical staining was used to measure the expression of an inflammation related protein, thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP), in kidney tissues of each rabbit. Results: The rabbit models for three experimental groups were successfully established. Compared with the rabbits form groups T and DM, the rabbits from group H showed higher levels of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine (Cr) since the eighth week after modeling. Compared with the rabbits form group C, those from the three experimental groups showed obvious kidney damages and the most severe damages in kidney tissues were observed in rabbits from group H. Results of the immunohistochemical staining showed that the expression of TXNIP in kidney tissues were enhanced in rabbits from the three experimental groups, especially in those from the group H. Conclusion: Diabetes mellitus in combination with syphilis could induce more severe kidney damages in rabbits than those induced by diabetes or syphilis alone. The possible mechanism might relate to the hyper-expression of TXNIP in kidney tissues.
We have been thinking along these past ten years about the real challenges for the use of models and the theoretical biology approach on living matter. It is quite clear for all, nowadays, that we can not only consider processing the huge library of data generated by an ever increasing volume of experiments, through traditional methods or analytical solutions. We must do more, since we now have new tools available. The difficulties we face when dealing with models related to living matter, with its unique characteristics, are well documented. Here we discuss those singularities and how to propose solutions to bypass their main questions.
Francisella noatunensis subsp. orientalis (Fno) is an emergent fish pathogen in both marine and fresh water environments. The bacterium is suspected to persist in the environment even without the presence of a suitable fish host. In the present study, the influence of different abiotic factors such as salinity and temperature were used to study the biofilm formation of different isolates of Fno including intracellular growth loci C (iglC) and pathogenicity determinant protein A (pdpA) knockout strains. Finally, we compared the susceptibility of planktonic and biofilm to three disinfectants used in the aquaculture and ornamental fish industry, namely Virkon®, bleach and hydrogen peroxide. The data indicates that Fno is capable of producing biofilms within 24 h where both salinity as well as temperature plays a role in the growth and biofilm formation of Fno. Mutations in the iglC or pdpA, both known virulence factors, do not appear to affect the capacity of Fno to produce biofilms, and the minimum inhibitory concentration, and minimum biocidal concentration for the three disinfectants were lower than the minimum biofilm eradication concentration values. This information needs to be taken into account if trying to eradicate the pathogen from aquaculture facilities or aquariums.
To enhance phytoremediation, which removes heavy metal from soil, transgenic plants were applied to contaminated soil. We constructed a transformation vector expressing both TgMTP1 (T. goesingense metal tolerance protein):HA and TgMTP:GFP genes. Transgenic plants were generated using an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system that expressed the two vectors. Screening and analysis confirmed the incorporation of foreign genes into the Arabidopsis thaliana genome. Callus was induced in the 116 T3 line. These transgenic plants and calli were used for further analyses on the accumulation of Ni. The 116 T3-line plants and calli from selected lines were resistant to heavy metals and accumulated Ni in their leaves. The expression level of TgMTP RNA was equal in all leaves, but protein stability increased in the leaves with Ni treatment. According to these results, we suggest that TgMTP1-overexpressing plants may be useful for phytoremediation of soil.
Sodium chloride is known to contribute to the quality and safety of foods. However, there is an increasing interest in reducing the sodium content in foodstuffs, owing to health-related concerns related to its overconsumption. Therefore, the possible use of enzymatically hydrolyzed anchovy protein (eHAP) in enhancing the intensity of the salty taste in model broth was investigated in this study. The sodium chloride content of eHAP was 67.7 g/L. The lightness (L) and yellowness (b) of the model broth increased with increasing eHAP concentration. Additionally, the perceived intensity of the salty taste of eHAP solutions increased with increasing amounts of eHAP at a given NaCl concentration in the model broth. The intensity of the salty taste was enhanced by 0.37-35.58% as eHAP was added. The results suggest that it may be possible to reduce the sodium chloride content in foods by enhancing the salty taste with eHAP.
Aminoacyl-tRNA protein transferases catalyze the transfer of amino acids from aminoacyl-tRNAs to polypeptide substrates. Different forms of these enzymes are found in the different kingdoms of life and have been identified to be central to a wide variety of cellular processes. L/F-transferase is the sole member of this class of enzyme found in Escherichia coli and catalyzes the transfer of leucine to the N-termini of proteins which result in the targeted degradation of the modified protein. Recent investigations on the tRNA specificity of L/F-transferase have revealed the unique recognition nucleotides for a preferred Leu-tRNALeu isoacceptor substrate. In addition to discussing this tRNA selectivity by L/F-transferase, we present and discuss a hypothesis and its implications regarding the apparent competition for this aminoacyl-tRNA between L/F-transferase and the translational machinery. Our discussion reveals a hypothetical involvement of the bacterial stringent response that occurs upon amino acid limitation as a potential cellular event that may reduce this competition and provide the opportunity for L/F-transferase to readily increase its access to the pool of aminoacylated tRNA substrates.
The crude enzyme solution of limit dextrinase was extracted by sodium acetate buffer from six days green malt of Australia. The malt limit dextrinase was purified with ammonium sulfate precipitation, Sephadex G-25 gel filtration chromatography, DEAE Sepharose FF anion exchange chromatography and Sephadex G-100 gel filtration chromatography from the extracted enzyme solution. The enzyme was purified to 164.2-fold with 16.5% recovery, and the specific activity increased from 3.40 mU/mg to 558.26 mU/mg. SDS-PAGE and IEF analysis revealed a single protein band corresponding to a molecular mass of 101.9 ku and a isoelectric point of 4.66, and the single protein band also showed that the purified enzyme has reached electrophoretically pure.
Glycine is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in brainstem and spinal cord, whereas in hippocampus glycine exerts dual modulatory roles on strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors and on the strychnine-insensitive glycineB site of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). In hippocampus, the synaptic availability of glycine is largely under control of glycine transporter 1 (GlyT1). Since epilepsy is a disorder of disrupted network homeostasis affecting the equilibrium of various neurotransmitters and neuromodulators, we hypothesized that changes in hippocampal GlyT1 expression and resulting disruption of glycine homeostasis might be implicated in the pathophysiology of epilepsy. Using two different rodent models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) - the intrahippocampal kainic acid model of TLE in mice, and the rat model of tetanic stimulation-induced TLE - we first demonstrated robust overexpression of GlyT1 in the hippocampal formation, suggesting dysfunctional glycine signaling in epilepsy. Overexpression of GlyT1 in the hippocampal formation was corroborated in human TLE samples by quantitative real time PCR. In support of a role of dysfunctional glycine signaling in the pathophysiology of epilepsy, both the genetic deletion of GlyT1 in hippocampus and the GlyT1 inhibitor LY2365109 increased seizure thresholds in mice. Importantly, chronic seizures in the mouse model of TLE were robustly suppressed by systemic administration of the GlyT1 inhibitor LY2365109. We conclude that GlyT1 overexpression in the epileptic brain constitutes a new target for therapeutic intervention, and that GlyT1 inhibitors constitute a new class of antiictogenic drugs. These findings are of translational value since GlyT1 inhibitors are already in clinical development to treat cognitive symptoms in schizophrenia
The aim of this study was to examine the role of GABAergic neurotransmission in amygdala nuclei in low- (LR) and high-anxiety (HR) rats after repeated corticosterone administration and acute injection of the benzodiazepine midazolam. The animals were divided into LR and HR groups based on the duration of their conditioned freezing in a contextual fear test (CFT). Repeated daily administration of corticosterone (20 mg/kg s.c.) for 21 injections increased anxiety-like behavior in the open field and reduced body weight in both the LR and HR groups. These effects of corticosterone administration were more pronounced in the HR group. Moreover, in the HR group, chronic corticosterone administration increased the duration of freezing in the CFT test compared with the appropriate control group and treated LR rats. The behavioral effects in HR rats were accompanied by an increase in the expression of c-Fos in the lateral (LA) and central (CeA) nuclei of the amygdala and by a decrease in GABA-A alpha-2 subunit density in the CeA. Acute midazolam administration significantly attenuated the neophobia and conditioned fear responses, decreased c-Fos expression in the LA and CeA, and increased alpha-2 subunit density in the CeA only in the HR group. These studies have shown that HR rats are more susceptible to the anxiogenic effects of chronic corticosterone administration, which are associated with the attenuation of GABAergic control over the amygdala output that controls emotional responses. The current data may increase understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms responsible for individual differences in the psychopathological processes induced by repeated administration of high doses of glucocorticoids or by elevated levels of these hormones, which are associated with chronic stress and affective pathology.
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS) is a widespread viral disease affecting the swine industry, with no cure or effective treatment. Current vaccines are inefficient mainly due to the high degree of genetic and antigenic variation within PRRS virus (PRRSV) strains. Thus, the development of novel anti-PRRSV strategies is an important area of research. The nonstructural protein 9 (Nsp9) of PRRSV is essential for viral replication, and its sequence is relatively conserved, making it a logical antiviral target for PRRSV. Camel single-domain antibodies (nanobodies) represent a promising antiviral approach because of their small size, high specificity, and solubility. However, no nanobodies against PRRSV have been reported to date. In this study, Nsp9-specific nanobodies were isolated from a phage display library of variable domains of Camellidaeheavy chain-only antibodies (VHH). One of the isolated nanobodies, Nb6, was chosen for further investigation. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments indicated that Nb6 can still maintain antigen binding capabilities when expressed in the cell cytoplasm. A MARC-145 cell line stably expressing Nb6 was established to investigate its potential antiviral activity. Our results showed that intracellularly expressed Nb6 could potently suppress PRRSV replication by inhibiting viral genome replication and transcription. More importantly, Nb6 could protect MARC-145 cells from virus-induced cytopathic effect (CPE) and fully block PRRSV replication at an MOI of 0.01 or lower. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a nanobody based antiviral strategy against PRRSV, and this finding has the potential to lead to future developments of novel antiviral treatments for PRRSV infection.
Objective: To analyze the roles and mechanisms of lactitol and Bifidobacterium infantis in the treatment of rat constipation and to investigate their effects on aquaporin3 (AQP3) and interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) in colon tissues. Methods: Thirty SD male rats were recruited in this study, 6 of which were randomly selected as the control and the rest were given 4 mg/kg.d of loperamide for 5 consecutive days to construct the rat model of constipation. The rats with constipation were randomly divided into four groups including model group, lactitol treatment group,Bifidobacterium infantis treatment group and lactitol in combination with Bifidobacterium infantis treatment group. General indexes including food intake, water intake, body weight, fecal water content and intestinal transit rate of each rat were measured after receiving corresponding treatments for 7 consecutive days. The levels of substance P (SP) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) in serums samples were detected by ELISA. The expression of protein kinase A (PKA) and neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1) at mRNA level in colon tissues were detected by real-time polymerase chain reaction (real-time PCR). Western blot assay and real-time PCR analysis were used to detect the expression of AQP3 and c-kit at protein and mRNA levels, respectively. Results: Compared with the rats in model group, the levels of fecal water content and intestinal transit rate, the concentrations of SP and VIP in serums samples, the expression of PKA and NK-1 at mRNA level and the expression of AQP3 and c-kit at mRNA and protein levels were significantly increased in rats from the three treatment groups (P<0.05). The most effective treatment was lactitol in combination with Bifidobacterium infantis, followed by the lactitol treatment and then the Bifidobacterium infantis treatment. Conclusion: The combination therapy with lactitol and Bifidobacterium infantis increased the serum levels of SP and VIP in rats with constipation. SP could enhance the contraction of gastrointestinal smooth muscles and improve the intestinal motility by binding to the NK-1 receptor on the membrane of ICC. VIP could promote the absorption of water in intestinal tracts, soften stools and alleviate constipation by upregulating the expression of AQP3 at both protein and mRNA levels via the cyclic adenosine monophosphate-PKA (cAMP-PKA) signaling pathway.
Objective: To investigate the effects of miRNA-146a on the differentiations and functions of CD4+ T lymphocytes in patients with psoriasis vulgaris. Methods: Thirty patients with psoriasis vulgaris and twenty heathy subjects were enrolled in this study. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to detect the expression of miRNA-146a in CD4+ T lymphocytes isolated from the peripheral blood samples. The levels of IFN-γ and IL-4 in serum samples were determined by using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Mononuclear cells were isolated from human peripheral blood samples by using Ficoll-Hypaque density-gradients centrifugation, from which the CD4+ T lymphocytes were separated by magnetic-activated cell sorting. The CD4+ T cells (2×106/ml) were seeded in culture plates with 6 wells. The CD4+ T lymphocytes were divided into 3 groups including the control group, miRNA-146a group and miRNA-146a inhibitor group. The numbers of Th1 and Th2 cells were measured by flow cytometry analysis (FACS). The expression of IFN-γRα, T-bet and GATA-3 at mRNA and protein levels were measured by using RT-PCR and Western blot assay, respectively. The levels of IFN-γ and IL-4 in culture supernatants of CD4+ T lymphocytes were detected by using ELISA. Results: In comparison with the normal control group, there were significant increases in the expression of miRNA-146a in CD4+ T lymphocytes and the level of IFN-γ in serum samples from patients with psoriasis vulgaris [(2.43±0.94) vs (1.05±0.23), (27.69±7.64) ng/L vs (9.75±2.81) ng/L, all P<0.01]. A positive correlation between the expression of miRNA-146a and the level of IFN-γ in serum was observed (r=0.837, P<0.01). Results of the in vitro culture of CD4+ T lymphocytes showed that the number of Th1 cells, the expression of T-bet at mRNA and protein levels and the level of IFN-γ in culture supernatant were significantly increased, while the expression of IFN-γRα protein was decreased in the miRNA-146a group in comparison with those of the control group (allP<0.01). No significant differences in the number of Th2 cells, the expression of GATA-3 protein, the expression of GATA-3 and IFN-γRα at mRNA level and the level of IL-4 in culture supernatants were found between the control and miRNA-146a groups (all P>0.05). The miRNA-146a inhibitor could effectively attenuate the effects of miRNA-146a on Th1 cells. Conclusion: The miRNA-146a could promote the differentiation and enhance the function of Th1 cells. It might play an important role in the pathogenesis of psoriasis vulgaris.
An interdigital capacitive biosensor has been designed and fabricated for label free detection of cardiac troponin-I (cTn-I) and Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2(HER2), cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer biomarkers respectively. CVD and cancer comprises of many disorders/types and various protein markers indicate the risk of the disease. In order to facilitate simultaneous multiple detection, a sensor chip, which has 2 rows of 6 interdigital capacitor (IDC) arrays was designed and fabricated. The chip was designed using simulation software (Sonnet) and fabricated on borofloat substrate using image reversal photolithography (for pattern transfer) and DC sputtering (for gold deposition). The IDC surface was functionalized using 2% 3-glycidoxypropyl trimethoxysilane (GPTMS) for antibody immobilization. The antibody-antigen binding on the IDC surface results in change in the capacitance of the IDC sensor. This change is directly related to the concentration of the antigen binding to the surface which helps in the quantification. Highly specific and sensitive detection of HER2 and cTn-I protein in real human serum was captured by anti-HER2 and anti-cTn-I antibody immobilized on IDC surface with a detection range of 5 pg/mL-5 ng/ml and50pg-1500 pg/ml respectively has been demonstrated.
Adult skeletal muscle tissue has a uniquely robust capacity for regeneration, which gradually declines with aging or is compromised in muscle diseases. The cellular mechanisms regulating adult myogenesis remain incompletely understood. Here we identify the cytokine tumor necrosis factor superfamily member 14 (Tnfsf14) as a positive regulator of myoblast differentiation in culture and muscle regeneration in vivo. We find that Tnfsf14, as well as its cognate receptors herpes virus entry mediator (HVEM) and lymphotoxin β receptor (LTβR), are expressed in both differentiating myocytes and regenerating myofibers. Depletion of Tnfsf14 or either receptor inhibits myoblast differentiation and promotes apoptosis. Our results also suggest that Tnfsf14 regulates myogenesis by supporting cell survival and maintaining a sufficient pool of cells for fusion. In addition, we show that Akt mediates the survival and myogenic function of Tnfsf14. Importantly, local knockdown of Tnfsf14 is found to impair injury-induced muscle regeneration in a mouse model, affirming an important physiological role for Tnfsf14 in myogenesis in vivo. Furthermore, we demonstrate that localized overexpression of Tnfsf14 potently enhances muscle regeneration, and that this regenerative capacity of Tnfsf14 is dependent on Akt signaling. Taken together, our findings reveal a novel regulator of skeletal myogenesis and implicate Tnfsf14 in future therapeutic development.
The causative agent of pandemic cholera, Vibrio cholerae, infects the anaerobic environment of the human intestine. Production of cholera toxin (CT), a major virulence factor of V. cholerae, is highly induced during anaerobic respiration with trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) as an alternative electron acceptor. However, the molecular mechanism of TMAO-stimulated CT production is not fully understood. Herein, we reveal that CT production during anaerobic TMAO respiration is affected by glucose fermentation. When the seventh pandemic V. cholerae O1 strain N16961 was grown with TMAO and additional glucose, CT production was markedly reduced. Furthermore, an N16961 Δcrp mutant, devoid of cyclic AMP receptor protein (CRP), was defective in CT production during growth by anaerobic TMAO respiration, further suggesting a role of glucose metabolism in regulating TMAO-mediated CT production. TMAO reductase activity was noticeably decreased when grown together with glucose or by mutation of the crp gene. A CRP binding region was identified in the promoter region of the torD gene, which encodes a structural subunit of the TMAO reductase. Gel shift assays further confirmed the binding of purified CRP to the torD promoter sequence. Together, our results suggest that the bacterial ability to respire using TMAO is controlled by CRP, whose activity is dependent on glucose availability. Our results reveal a novel mechanism for the regulation of major virulence factor production by V. cholerae under anaerobic growth conditions.
Background: This study aimed to determine the role of miR-129-5p in irradiation-induced autophagy in breast cancer cells and to investigate its downstream regulation in autophagy-related radiosensitivity. Material/Methods: Relative miR-129-5p expression in breast cancer cell lines MCF-7, MDA-MB-231, BT474, and BT549, and in 1 non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cell line, MCF-10A, was compared. The effect of miR-129-5p on irradiation- induced autophagy and radiosensitivity of the cancer cells was explored. The regulative effect of miR-129-5p on HMGB1 and the functional role of this axis in autophagy and radiosensitivity were also studied. Results: Ectopic expression of miR-129-5p sensitized MDA-MD-231 cells to irradiation, while knockdown of miR-129-5p reduced radiosensitivity of MCF-7 cells. MiR-129-5p overexpression inhibited irradiation-induced autophagy. HMGB1 is a direct functional target of miR-129-5p in breast cancer cells. MiR-129-5p may suppress autophagy and decrease radioresistance of breast cancer cells by targeting HMGB1. Conclusions: The miR-129-5p/HMGB1 axis can regulate irradiation-induced autophagy in breast cancer and might be an important pathway in regulating radiosensitivity of breast cancer cells.
Subjects carrying the T2238C ANP gene variant have a higher risk to suffer a stroke or myocardial infarction. The mechanisms through which T2238C/αANP exerts detrimental vascular effects need to be fully clarified. In the present work we aimed at exploring the impact of C2238/αANP (mutant form) on atherosclerosis-related pathways. As a first step, an atherosclerosis gene expression macroarray analysis was performed in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) exposed to either T2238/αANP (wild type) or C2238/αANP. The major finding was that apolipoprotein E (ApoE) gene expression was significantly downregulated by C2238/αANP and it was upregulated by T2238/αANP. We subsequently found that C2238/αANP induces ApoE downregulation through type C natriuretic peptide receptor (NPR-C)-dependent mechanisms involving the upregulation of miR199a-3p and miR199a-5p and the downregulation of DNAJA4. In fact, NPR-C knockdown rescued ApoE level. Upregulation of miR199a by NPR-C was mediated by a reactive oxygen species-dependent increase of the early growth response protein-1 (Egr-1) transcription factor. In fact, Egr-1 knockdown abolished the impact of C2238/αANP on ApoE and miR199a. Of note, downregulation of ApoE by C2238/αANP was associated with a significant increase in inflammation, apoptosis and necrosis that was completely rescued by the exogenous administration of recombinant ApoE. In conclusion, our study dissected a novel mechanism of vascular damage exerted by C2238/αANP that is mediated by ApoE downregulation. We provide the first demonstration that C2238/αANP downregulates ApoE in VSMCs through NPR-C-dependent activation of Egr-1 and the consequent upregulation of miR199a. Restoring ApoE levels could represent a potential therapeutic strategy to counteract the harmful effects of C2238/αANP.
Background: Schistosomiasis is one of the most prevalent parasitic diseases worldwide and is a public health problem. Schistosoma mansoni is the most widespread species responsible for schistosomiasis in the Americas, Middle East and Africa. Adult female worms (mated to males) release eggs in the hepatic portal vasculature and are the principal cause of morbidity. Comparative separate transcriptomes of female and male adult worms were previously assessed with using microarrays and Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE), thus limiting the possibility of finding novel genes. Moreover, the egg transcriptome was analyzed only once with limited bacterially cloned cDNA libraries. Methodology/Principal findings: To compare the gene expression of S. mansoni eggs, females, and males, we performed RNA-Seq on these three parasite forms using 454/Roche technology and reconstructed the transcriptome using Trinity de novo assembly. The resulting contigs were mapped to the genome and were cross-referenced with predicted Smp genes and H3K4me3 ChIP-Seq public data. For the first time, we obtained separate, unbiased gene expression profiles for S. mansoni eggs and female and male adult worms, identifying enriched biological processes and specific enriched functions for each of the three parasite forms. Transcripts with no match to predicted genes were analyzed for their protein-coding potential and the presence of an encoded conserved protein domain. A set of 232 novel protein-coding genes with putative functions related to reproduction, metabolism, and cell biogenesis was detected, which contributes to the understanding of parasite biology. Conclusions/Significance: Large-scale RNA-Seq analysis using de novo assembly associated with genome-wide information for histone marks in the vicinity of gene models constitutes a new approach to transcriptome analysis that has not yet been explored in schistosomes. Importantly, all data have been consolidated into a UCSC Genome Browser search- and download-tool (http://schistosoma.usp.br/). This database provides new ways to explore the schistosome genome and transcriptome and will facilitate molecular research on this important parasite.
The present work demonstrates ultrasensitive, label free biosensor platform using Self Assembled Monolayer (SAM) modified Electrospun ZnO nanofibers. The inherent sensing ability of ZnO nanofibers is enhanced by modifying the fibers with 3-mercaptopropionic (MPA) acid. This role of MPA is to generate carboxylic acid (-COOH) group which can easily be functionalized with any protein molecule by a simple, well established crosslinking biochemistry. To synthesize the nanofibers electrospinning technique, a simple, low cost, robust technique, was utilized. The as-synthesized ZnO nanowires were characterized using Field emission-scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), X-ray diffraction (XRD). The performance of sensor was verified with standard Biotin-Streptavidin interaction as model system using Cyclic Voltammetry (CV). The sensor exhibits excellent sensitivity (613 μ?/mg ml-1/cm2) within 1 μgml-1-1fgml-1 of streptavidin with lfgml-1 lower detection limit.
Upon protein-substrate association reaction, dewetting of the substrate-binding pocket is one of the rate-limiting processes. However, understanding the microscopic mechanism still remains challenging because of practical limitations of experimental methodologies. We have addressed the problem here by using molecular dynamics (MD) simulation of the thrombin-substrate association reaction. During the MD simulation, ArgP1 in a substrate accessed thrombin's substrate-binding pocket and formed specific hydrogen bonds (H-bonds) with Asp189 in thrombin, while the catalytic serine of thrombin was still away from the substrate's active site. It is assumed that the thrombin-substrate association reaction is regulated by a stepwise mechanism. Furthermore, in the earlier stage of ArgP1 access to the pocket, we observed that ArgP1 was spatially separated from Asp189 by two water molecules in the pocket. These water molecules transferred from the pocket, followed by the specific H-bond formation between thrombin and the substrate. Interestingly, they were not evacuated directly from the pocket to the bulk solvent, but moved to the water channel of thrombin. This observation indicates that the channel plays functional roles in dewetting upon the association reaction.
In this work we analyze at a structural level the mechanism by which Cu(II) and Zn(II) ions compete for binding to the Aβ peptides that is involved in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. We collected X-ray absorption spectroscopy data on samples containing Aβ with Cu and Zn at different concentration ratios. We show that the order in which metals are added to the peptide solution matters and that, when Zn is added first, it prevents Cu from binding. On the contrary, when Cu is added first, it does not (completely) prevent Zn binding to Aβ peptides. Our analysis suggests that Cu and Zn ions are coordinated to different numbers of histidine residues depending on the [ion]:[peptide] concentration ratio.
Escherichia coli has a remarkable ability to survive low pH and possesses a number of different genetic systems that enable it to do this. These may be expressed constitutively, typically in stationary phase, or induced by growth under a variety of conditions. The activities of these systems have been implicated in the ability of E. coli to pass the acidic barrier of the stomach and to become established in the gastrointestinal tract, something causing serious infections. However, much of the work characterizing these systems has been done on standard laboratory strains of E. coli and under conditions which do not closely resemble those found in the human gut. Here we review what is known about acid resistance in E. coli as a model laboratory organism and in the context of its lifestyle as an inhabitant-sometimes an unwelcome one-of the human gut.
Sepsis remains a major worldwide cause of morbidity and mortality and remains amongst the leading causes of death in medical Intensive Care Units (ICUs). Increasing injury severity associated with trauma is a significant independent risk factor for sepsis and many of these patients require intensive care unit resource utilization with increased rates of mortality. There are many postulated theories regarding the mechanism surrounding the correlation between trauma and shock. One such theory evaluated the deterioration of the immune system after trauma with the activation of Damage Associated Molecular Proteins (DAMPs) and the potential role of mitochondrial release into the bloodstream following physical injury leading to the onset of the Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome (SIRS). Despite these proposed theories, a breach of cellular integrity seems to unravel a multitude of immunologic responses that in essence account for the deleterious symptoms associated with sepsis. The association between traumatic injury and sepsis is very complex. This review explores the multifaceted immunoinflammatory response and gives an in depth immunologic explanation of the fundamental mediators in the initiation and continuation of the inflammatory response following the loss of cellular integrity.
In order to study genetic engineering in trees, the characterization of genes and promoters from trees is necessary. We isolated the promoter region (867 bp) of Pagns-LTP from poplar (P. Alba × P. glandulosa) and characterized its activity in transgenic poplar plants using a β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. High-level expression of the Pagns-LTP transcript was found in poplar roots, while comparatively low-level expression was found in the young leaves. Pagns-LTP mRNA was not detected in other poplar tissues. Additionally, transgenic poplar plants that contained a Pagns-LTP promoter fused to a GUS reporter gene, displayed tissue-specific GUS enzyme activity localized in root tissue. In silico analysis of the Pagns-LTP promoter sequence reveals the presence of several cis-regulatory elements responsive to phytohormones, biotic and abiotic stresses, as well as those regulating tissue-specific expression. These results demonstrate that the Pagns-LTP promoter has tissue-specific expression activity in poplar roots and leaves that may be involved in organ development and plant resistance to various stresses. Therefore, we anticipate that the Pagns-LTP promoter would be a useful tool to genetically optimize woody plants for functional genomics.
Inner-ear mechanotransduction relies on tip links, fine protein filaments made of cadherin-23 and protocadherin-15 that convey tension to mechanosensitive channels at the tips of hair-cell stereocilia. The tip-link cadherins are thought to form a heterotetrameric complex, with two cadherin-23 molecules forming the upper part of the filament and two protocadherin-15 molecules forming the lower end. The interaction between cadherin-23 and protocadherin-15 is mediated by their N-terminal tips. Missense mutations that modify the interaction interface impair binding and lead to deafness. Molecular dynamics simulations predict that the tip-link bond is mechanically strong enough to withstand forces in hair cells, but its experimentally determined strength is unknown. We have developed molecular tools to facilitate single-molecule force spectroscopy on the tip link bond. Self-assembling DNA nanoswitches are functionalized with the interacting tips of cadherin-23 and protocadherin-15 using the enzyme sortase under conditions that preserve protein function. These tip link nanoswitches are designed to provide a signature force-extension profile. This molecular signature should allow us to identify single-molecule rupture events in pulling experiments.
A facile method was developed for the detection of Troponin I (Tnl) using dendritic platinum nanoparticles and capillary tube indicators. Dendritic platinum nanoparticles were functionalized with TnI antibodies, which were used to capture TnI in human serum. The captured TnI was conjugated to the inner surface of a glass vial, to which a hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) solution was added. After sealing the glass vial with a screw cap containing a silicon septum, a capillary tube containing a drop of ink was inserted through the septum. The catalytic dissociation of H2O2 to water and oxygen increased the pressure inside the glass vial and raised the ink level in the capillary tube. The ink level increased with the platinum nanoparticle concentration, which is proportional to the TnI concentration. The sensitivity of this assay for TnI in human serum after a 5-min dissociation reaction, detected with the naked eye, was 0.1 ng/mL, which was better than the sensitivity of the conventional colorimetric method using the TMB oxidation reaction under the same experimental conditions. A control experiment using alpha-fetoprotein, interleukin-5, and C-reactive protein revealed that the developed method was highly selective for the detection of.
Objective: To study the effects of a miRNA family member, let-7e, on the LPS-induced expression of TNF-α in primary monocytes and the possible mechanism. Methods: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated form human blood sample by using density gradient centrifugation for further isolation of primary monocytes. Flow cytometry analysis was used to measure the purity of isolated primary monocytes. The efficiencies of transfection were evaluated by qRT-PCR and immunofluorescence assay after transfecting the primary monocytes with let-7e mimic or miRNA mimic negative control (NC) for 24 h, 36 h and 48 h. To screen out the optimal stimulation time, ELISA was performed to detect the concentrations of TNF-α in the supernatants of cell culture after stimulating the primary monocytes with 1 mg/L of LPS for 0 h, 1 h, 3 h, 6 h and 12 h, respectively. ELISA and qRT-PCR were used to measure the expression of TNF-α in the transfected cells with the interference of LPS. Western blot assay was used to detect the level of enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) in let-7e mimic-transfected primary monocytes and the levels of NF-κB p65, ADP-ribosylation factor GTPase-activating protein 1 (ARFGAP1) and Arfaptin2 in the siEZH2-transfected monocytes. Results: More than 70% of the isolated cells were CD14+ cells. The miRNA mimics could transfect the primary monocytes effectively and the transfection rate was about 70%. High levels of let-7e were detected in let-7e mimic-transfected primary monocytes 24 hours after the transfection. High levels of TNF-α were observed in the primary monocytes after stimulated with LPS for 12 h, which was considered as the optimal LPS stimulation time. Results of the ELISA indicated that let-7e mimic significantly inhibited the LPS-induced expression of TNF-α in primary monocytes at both mRNA and protein levels. Western blot assay showed that the levels of EZH2 in the let-7e mimic transfected primary monocytes were significantly lower than that in mimic NC transfected primary monocytes. Silenced expression of EZH2 significantly inhibited the expression of NF-κB p65 in nucleus as well as the expression of ARFGAP1 and Arfaptin2. Conclusion: let-7e mimic significantly inhibited the LPS-induced expression of TNF-α in primary monocytes. It is possible that Let-7e regulates the expression of NF-κB p65, ARFGAP1 and Arfaptin2 by targeting EZH2 directly to inhibit the expression of TNF-α.
Exposure to ionizing radiation (IR) is inevitable to humans in real-life scenarios; the hazards of IR primarily stem from its mutagenic, carcinogenic, and cell killing ability. For many decades, extensive research has been conducted on the human cell responses to IR delivered at a low dose/low dose (LD) rate. These studies have shown that the molecular-, cellular-, and tissue-level responses are different after low doses of IR (LDIR) compared to those observed after a short-term high-dose IR exposure (HDIR).With the advent of high-throughput technologies in the late 1990s, such as DNA microarrays, changes in gene expression have also been found to be ubiquitous after LDIR. Very limited subset of genes has been shown to be consistently up-regulated by LDIR, including CDKN1A. Further research on the biological effects and mechanisms induced by IR in human cells demonstrated that the molecular and cellular processes, including transcriptional alterations, activated by LDIR are often related to protective responses and, sometimes, hormesis. Following LDIR, some distinct responses were observed, these included bystander effects, and adaptive responses. Changes in gene expression, not only at the level of mRNA, but also miRNA, have been found to crucially underlie these effects having implications for radiation protection purposes.
Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) remains a major problem for many preterm infants. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level and have been studied in many diseases. To understand the roles of miRNAs in ROP model rats, we constructed two small RNA libraries from the plasma of hyperoxia-induced rats and normal controls. Sequencing data revealed that 44 down-regulated microRNAs and 22 up-regulated microRNAs from the hyperoxia-induced rats were identified by deep sequencing technology. Some of the differentially expressed miRNAs were confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR). A total of 594 target genes of the differentially expressed microRNAs were identified using a bioinformatics approach. Functional annotation analysis indicated that a number of pathways might be involved in angiogenesis, cell proliferation and cell differentiation, which might be involved in the genesis and development of ROP. The elevated expression level of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) protein in the hyperoxia-induced neonatal rats was also confirmed by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). This study provides some insights into the molecular mechanisms that underlie ROP development, thereby aiding the diagnosis and treatment of this disease.
A new phenolic acid decarboxylase gene (blpad) from Bacillus licheniformis was cloned and overexpressed in Escherichia coli. The full-length blpad encodes a 166-amino acid polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass and pI of 19,521 Da and 5.02, respectively. The recombinant BLPAD displayed maximum activity at 37 °C and pH 6.0. This enzyme possesses a broad substrate specificity and is able to decarboxylate p-coumaric, ferulic, caffeic, and sinapic acids at the relative ratios of specific activities 100:74.59:34.41:0.29. Kinetic constant Km values toward p-coumaric, ferulic, caffeic, and sinapic acids were 1.64, 1.55, 1.93, and 2.45 mM, and Vmax values were 268.43, 216.80, 119.07, and 0.78 U mg−1, respectively. In comparison with other phenolic acid decarboxylases, BLPAD exhibited remarkable organic solvent tolerance and good thermal stability. BLPAD showed excellent catalytic performance in biphasic organic/aqueous systems and efficiently converted p-coumaric and ferulic acids into 4-vinylphenol and 4-vinylguaiacol. At 500 mM of p-coumaric and ferulic acids, the recombinant BLPAD produced a total 60.63 g l−1 4-vinylphenol and 58.30 g l−1 4-vinylguaiacol with the conversion yields 97.02 and 70.96 %, respectively. The low yield and product concentration are the crucial drawbacks to the practical bioproduction of vinyl phenol derivatives using phenolic acid decarboxylases. These unusual properties make BLPAD a desirable biocatalyst for commercial use in the bioconversion of hydroxycinnamic acids to vinyl phenol derivatives via enzymatic decarboxylation in a biphasic organic/aqueous reaction system.
The aim of our study was to analyze the presence of 5-methyl-cytosine (5-mC) and 5-hydroxymethyl-cytosine (5-hmC) in the genome of crustacean Daphnia pulex. First, the presence of 5-mC and 5-hmC in genomic DNA was demonstrated by using antibodies specific to either 5-mC or 5-hmC. Then, analysis of 5-mC and 5-hmC using pairs of restriction enzymes with different sensitivity to methylation and hydroxymethylation confirmed the presence of both modifications in selected regions of three genes (Cox4, Cand2 and Ephx1). To get a detailed picture of 5-hmC distribution over the D. pulex genome, we performed 5-hmC enrichment and sequenced the enriched fraction using next generation sequencing and non-enriched library (input) as a control. Comparison of input and enriched libraries showed that 5-hmC in exons is twice as frequent as in introns. Functional analysis indicated that 5-hmC abundance is associated with genes that are involved in the adenylate cyclase-activating G-protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, molting cycles, morphogenesis and cell fate determination. Genes that lack 5-hmC tend to be involved in the regulation of the transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway and in many mRNA-related processes. Our results suggest that epigenetic modifications are present in the genome of D. pulex and most likely are involved in the regulation of gene expression of this crustacean.
BACKGROUND: The low cytochrome c oxidase (COX)-1 activity was associated with reduction of adenosin triphosphate (ATP) production in diabetes mellitus (DM) individuals. Interestingly, the secondary metabolite of Dioscorea esculenta (lesser yam) fermentation in gut can increase ATP production. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of Lesser yam diet on ATP level and COX-1 expression in type 2 diabetic rats. METHODS: Thirty Wistar rats were divided into 5 groups: (1) normal rats (N), (2) diabetic rats (DM), (3) diabetic rats with lesser yam 200 mg/kg BW (DMT1), (4) diabetic rats with lesser yam 400 mg/kg BW (DMT2), (5) diabetic rats with lesser yam 800 mg/kg BW (DMT3). The diabetic rats were induced by nicotinamide and streptozotocin and had plasma glucose more than 126 mg/dL. ATP was measured before and after 4 weeks of intervention. COX-1-was determined at skeletal muscle, heart, liver, brown adipose tissue and kidney after intervention using immuno-histochemistry (IHC). RESULTS: Fasting blood glucose was reduced in all intervention groups compared to DM group (p = 0.016). ATP level was significantly increased in DMT1 group and slightly higher in DMT2 and DMT3 compared with the negative control (p > 0.05). After the intervention, COX-1 protein expression was higher in kidney, liver and skeletal muscle in diabetic rats received lesser yam compared to DM group (p < 0.05). CONCLUSION: In this study we found that lesser yam reduced fasting blood glucose, increase plasma ATP and expression of COX-1 protein.
The proceedings contain 120 papers. The topics discussed include: towards force spectroscopy of single tip-link bonds; the neuromechanics of hearing; cochlear microphonic broad tuning curves; computational exploration of single-protein mechanics by steered molecular dynamics; voltage- and calcium-dependent motility of saccular hair bundles; hair-bundle friction from transduction channels' gating forces; in search of the cochlear amplifier: new mechanical and molecular tools to probe transduction channel function; characterization of active hair-bundle motility by a mechanical-load clamp; intracellular calcium affects Prestin's voltage operating point indirectly via Turgor-induced membrane tension; noise alters hair-bundle mechanics at the cochlear apex; using noncontact AFM frequency shifts to determine stereocilia bundle stiffness and tension in the developing cochlear sensory epithelium; and deriving stereocilia displacement from the impedance of the organ of corti.
Highly pathogenic porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (HP-PRRSV) is a variant of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) which, in recent years, has caused heavy economic losses to swine-producing areas. Although current vaccines are somewhat prophylactic, they provide only limited protection. Furthermore, there are currently no effective anti-HP-PRRSV drugs. Consequently, it is necessary to develop novel antiviral strategies. In the present study, three recombinant pseudorabies viruses (PRV) expressing siRNAs against the ORF7 of HP-PRRSV strain HN1 (PRV gG-/siRNAN1, PRV gG-/siRNAN2, and PRV gG-/siRNAN3) were evaluated for the inhibition of HP-PRRSV replication. The results indicated that recombinant PRV-mediated siRNA could significantly decrease the replication of traditional PRRSV strain H1 at mRNA and protein levels in Marc-145 cells. Moreover, one recombinant PRV (PRV gG-/siRNAN2) was found to be inhibit the multiplication of HP-PRRSV strain HN1 effectively in Marc-145 cells at both the protein and ORF7 mRNA level. Twenty 21-day-old healthy weaned piglets were divided into four groups of five piglets each. Groups 1 and 2 were injected i.m. with PRV gG-/siRNAN2 and PRV gG-/siRNANeg individually. The piglets in group 3 were challenged with the HP-PRRSV control. After 24 h, the piglets in groups 1-3 were challenged i.m. with HP-PRRSV strain HN1, while those in group 4 were i.m. administered with PBS as a negative control. The results showed that HP-PRRSV in serum and lung samples from piglets was effectively inhibited by PRV gG-/siRNAN2. The clinical signs and gross lesions of piglets inoculated with PRV gG-/siRNAN2 were significantly less invasive than those of the PRV gG-/siRNANeg group and HP-PRRSV control group. These results showed that siRNAs mediated by recombinant PRV could effectively suppress HP-PRRSV replication in vitro as well as in vivo. RNAi mediated by recombinant PRV presents a potential novel method to prevent HP-PRRSV infections in swine. However, the protective efficiency of PRV gG-/siRNAN2 should be assessed in a larger number of piglets in future studies.
Purpose: To report potentially pathogenic mutations in the keratin 3 (KRT3) and keratin 12 (KRT12) genes in two individuals with clinically diagnosed Meesmann corneal dystrophy (MECD). Methods: Slit-lamp examination was performed on the probands and available family members to identify characteristic features of MECD. After informed consent was obtained, saliva samples were obtained as a source of genomic DNA, and screening of KRT3 and KRT12 was performed. Potentially pathogenic variants were screened for in 200 control chromosomes. PolyPhen-2, SIFT, and PANTHER were used to predict the functional impact of identified variants. Short tandem repeat genotyping was performed to confirm paternity. Results: Slit-lamp examination of the first proband demonstrated bilateral, diffusely distributed, clear epithelial microcysts, consistent with MECD. Screening of KRT3 revealed a heterozygous missense variant in exon 1, c.250C>T (p.(Arg84Trp)), which has a minor allele frequency of 0.0076 and was not identified in 200 control chromosomes. In silico analysis with PolyPhen-2 and PANTHER predicted the variant to be damaging to protein function; however, SIFT analysis predicted tolerance of the variant. The second proband demonstrated bilateral, diffusely distributed epithelial opacities that appeared gray-white on direct illumination and translucent on retroillumination. Neither parent demonstrated corneal opacities. Screening of KRT12 revealed a novel heterozygous insertion/deletion variant in exon 6, c.1288_1293delinsAGCCCT (p.(Arg430_Arg431delinsSerPro)). This variant was not present in either of the proband’s parents or in 200 control chromosomes and was predicted to be damaging by PolyPhen-2, PANTHER, and SIFT. Haplotype analysis confirmed paternity of the second proband, indicating that the variant arose de novo. Conclusions: We present a novel KRT12 mutation, representing the first de novo mutation and the first indel in KRT12 associated with MECD. In addition, we report a variant of uncertain significance in KRT3 in an individual with MECD. Although the potential pathogenicity of this variant is unknown, it is the first variant affecting the head domain of K3 to be reported in an individual with MECD and suggests that disease-causing variants associated with MECD may not be restricted to primary sequence alterations of either the helix-initiation or helix-termination motifs of K3 and K12.
Calcinosis cutis is a rare condition characterized by the deposition of insoluble calcium salts in the skin and subcutaneous tissue. Dystrophic calcinosis cutis appears as a result of local tissue damage or abnormalities, such as alterations in extracellular matrix proteins or subcutaneous tissue with normal calcium and phosphate serum levels. It has been rarely described as a late complication of burns. Latency periods of 15-54 years have been reported. We describe the case of a 57-yearold man with dystrophic calcinosis cutis in a burn scar, which developed 42 years after the skin injury. The condition was successfully treated with surgical excision.
BACKGROUND A simple treatment regimen that is effective in a broad range of patients who are chronically infected with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) remains an unmet medical need. METHODS We conducted a phase 3, double-blind, placebo-controlled study involving untreated and previously treated patients with chronic HCV genotype 1, 2, 4, 5, or 6 infection, including those with compensated cirrhosis. Patients with HCV genotype 1, 2, 4, or 6 were randomly assigned in a 5:1 ratio to receive the nucleotide polymerase inhibitor sofosbuvir and the NS5A inhibitor velpatasvir in a once-daily, fixed-dose combination tablet or matching placebo for 12 weeks. Because of the low prevalence of genotype 5 in the study regions, patients with genotype 5 did not undergo randomization but were assigned to the sofosbuvir-velpatasvir group. The primary end point was a sustained virologic response at 12 weeks after the end of therapy. RESULTS Of the 624 patients who received treatment with sofosbuvir-velpatasvir, 34% had HCV genotype 1a, 19% genotype 1b, 17% genotype 2, 19% genotype 4, 6% genotype 5, and 7% genotype 6. A total of 8% of patients were black, 19% had cirrhosis, and 32% had been previously treated for HCV. The rate of sustained virologic response among patients receiving sofosbuvir-velpatasvir was 99% (95% confidence interval, 98 to >99). Two patients receiving sofosbuvir-velpatasvir, both with HCV genotype 1, had a virologic relapse. None of the 116 patients receiving placebo had a sustained virologic response. Serious adverse events were reported in 15 patients (2%) in the sofosbuvir-velpatasvir group and none in the placebo group. CONCLUSIONS Once-daily sofosbuvir-velpatasvir for 12 weeks provided high rates of sustained virologic response among both previously treated and untreated patients infected with HCV genotype 1, 2, 4, 5, or 6, including those with compensated cirrhosis. (Funded by Gilead Sciences; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02201940.)
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease has an increasing prevalence in Western countries, affecting up to 20% of the population. Objective: The aim of this project was to systematically review and summarise the genetic association studies that investigate possible genetic influences that confer susceptibility to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Design: The MEDLINE and SCOPUS databases were searched to identify candidate gene studies on histologically diagnosed non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Results: A total of 85 articles have been summarised and categorised on the basis of the general pathway each candidate gene is involved in, including lipid metabolism, lipoprotein processing, cholesterol synthesis, glucose homoeostasis, inflammatory response, protection against oxidative stress and whole body metabolism. Conclusions: The main findings demonstrate a small but consistent association of PNPLA3 with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Genetic association studies have investigated general disease susceptibility, histological characteristics, severity and progression. However, further study is required to better elucidate the genetic factors influencing fatty liver disease.
Cell-penetrating compounds (CPCs) are often conjugated to drugs and genes to facilitate cellular uptake. We hypothesize that the electrostatic interaction between the positively charged amines of the cell-penetrating compounds and the negatively charged glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) extending from cell surfaces is the initiating step in the internalization process. The interactions of generation 5 PAMAM dendrimer, Tat peptide and 25 kDa linear PEI with four different GAGs have been studied using isothermal titration calorimetry to elucidate structure-function relationships that could lead to improved drug and gene delivery methods to a wide variety of cell types. Detailed thermodynamic analysis has determined that CPC-GAG binding constants range from 8.7 × 10<sup>3</sup> to 2.4 × 10<sup>6</sup> M<sup>- 1</sup> and that affinity is dependent upon GAG charge density and stereochemistry and CPC molecular weight. The effect of GAG composition on affinity is likely due to hydrogen bonding between CPC amines and amides and GAG hydroxyl and amine groups. These results were compared to the association of CPCs with lipid vesicles of varying composition as model plasma membranes to finally clarify the relative importance of each cell surface component in initial cell recognition. CPC-lipid affinity increases with anionic lipid content, but GAG affinity is higher for all cell-penetrating compounds, confirming the role these heterogeneous polysaccharides play in cellular association and clustering.
Cellular processes do not follow deterministic rules; even in identical environments genetically identical cells can make random choices leading to different phenotypes. This randomness originates from fluctuations present in the biomolecular interaction networks. Most previous work has been focused on the intrinsic noise (IN) of these networks. Yet, especially for high-copy-number biomolecules, extrinsic or environmental noise (EN) has been experimentally shown to dominate the variation. Here, we develop an analytical formalism that allows for calculation of the effect of EN on gene-expression motifs. We introduce a method for modeling bounded EN as an auxiliary species in the master equation. The method is fully generic and is not limited to systems with small EN magnitudes. We focus our study on motifs that can be viewed as the building blocks of genetic switches: a nonregulated gene, a self-inhibiting gene, and a self-promoting gene. The role of the EN properties (magnitude, correlation time, and distribution) on the statistics of interest are systematically investigated, and the effect of fluctuations in different reaction rates is compared. Due to its analytical nature, our formalism can be used to quantify the effect of EN on the dynamics of biochemical networks and can also be used to improve the interpretation of data from single-cell gene-expression experiments.
BACKGROUND In phase 2 trials, treatment with the combination of the nucleotide polymerase inhibitor sofosbuvir and the NS5A inhibitor velpatasvir resulted in high rates of sustained virologic response in patients chronically infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 2 or 3. METHODS We conducted two randomized, phase 3, open-label studies involving patients who had received previous treatment for HCV genotype 2 or 3 and those who had not received such treatment, including patients with compensated cirrhosis. In one trial, patients with HCV genotype 2 were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive sofosbuvir-velpatasvir, in a once-daily, fixed-dose combination tablet (134 patients), or sofosbuvir plus weight-based ribavirin (132 patients) for 12 weeks. In a second trial, patients with HCV genotype 3 were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive sofosbuvir-velpatasvir for 12 weeks (277 patients) or sofosbuvir-ribavirin for 24 weeks (275 patients). The primary end point for the two trials was a sustained virologic response at 12 weeks after the end of therapy. RESULTS Among patients with HCV genotype 2, the rate of sustained virologic response in the sofosbuvir-velpatasvir group was 99% (95% confidence interval [CI], 96 to 100), which was superior to the rate of 94% (95% CI, 88 to 97) in the sofosbuvir-ribavirin group (P = 0.02). Among patients with HCV genotype 3, the rate of sustained virologic response in the sofosbuvir-velpatasvir group was 95% (95% CI, 92 to 98), which was superior to the rate of 80% (95% CI, 75 to 85) in the sofosbuvir-ribavirin group (P<0.001). The most common adverse events in the two studies were fatigue, headache, nausea, and insomnia. CONCLUSIONS Among patients with HCV genotype 2 or 3 with or without previous treatment, including those with compensated cirrhosis, 12 weeks of treatment with sofosbuvir- velpatasvir resulted in rates of sustained virologic response that were superior to those with standard treatment with sofosbuvir-ribavirin. (Funded by Gilead Sciences; ASTRAL-2 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02220998; and ASTRAL-3, NCT02201953.)
BACKGROUND As the population that is infected with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) ages, the number of patients with decompensated cirrhosis is expected to increase. METHODS We conducted a phase 3, open-label study involving both previously treated and previously untreated patients infected with HCV genotypes 1 through 6 who had decompensated cirrhosis (classified as Child-Pugh-Turcotte class B). Patients were randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive the nucleotide polymerase inhibitor sofosbuvir and the NS5A inhibitor velpatasvir once daily for 12 weeks, sofosbuvir- velpatasvir plus ribavirin for 12 weeks, or sofosbuvir-velpatasvir for 24 weeks. The primary end point was a sustained virologic response at 12 weeks after the end of therapy. RESULTS Of the 267 patients who received treatment, 78% had HCV genotype 1, 4% genotype 2, 15% genotype 3, 3% genotype 4, and less than 1% genotype 6; no patients had genotype 5. Overall rates of sustained virologic response were 83% (95% confidence interval [CI], 74 to 90) among patients who received 12 weeks of sofosbuvir- velpatasvir, 94% (95% CI, 87 to 98) among those who received 12 weeks of sofosbuvir-velpatasvir plus ribavirin, and 86% (95% CI, 77 to 92) among those who received 24 weeks of sofosbuvir-velpatasvir. Post hoc analysis did not detect any significant differences in rates of sustained virologic response among the three study groups. Serious adverse events occurred in 19% of patients who received 12 weeks of sofosbuvir-velpatasvir, 16% of those who received 12 weeks of sofosbuvir-velpatasvir plus ribavirin, and 18% of those who received 24 weeks of sofosbuvir-velpatasvir. The most common adverse events were fatigue (29%), nausea (23%), and headache (22%) in all patients and anemia (31%) in the patients receiving ribavirin. CONCLUSIONS Treatment with sofosbuvir-velpatasvir with or without ribavirin for 12 weeks and with sofosbuvir-velpatasvir for 24 weeks resulted in high rates of sustained virologic response in patients with HCV infection and decompensated cirrhosis. (Funded by Gilead Sciences; ASTRAL-4 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02201901.)
Background N-2-methoxybenzyl-phenethylamines (NBOMe drugs) are newly used psychoactive substances with poorly defined pharmacological properties. The aim of the present study was to characterize the receptor binding profiles of a series of NBOMe drugs compared with their 2,5-dimethoxy-phenethylamine analogs (2C drugs) and lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) in vitro. Methods We investigated the binding affinities of 2C drugs (2C-B, 2C-C, 2C-D, 2C-E, 2C-H, 2C-I, 2C-N, 2C-P, 2C-T-2, 2C-T-4, 2C-T-7, and mescaline), their NBOMe analogs, and LSD at monoamine receptors and determined functional 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A (5-HT<inf>2A</inf>) and 5-HT<inf>2B</inf> receptor activation. Binding at and the inhibition of monoamine uptake transporters were also determined. Human cells that were transfected with the respective human receptors or transporters were used (with the exception of trace amine-associated receptor-1 [TAAR<inf>1</inf>], in which rat/mouse receptors were used). Results All of the compounds potently interacted with serotonergic 5-HT<inf>2A</inf>, 5-HT<inf>2B</inf>, 5-HT<inf>2C</inf> receptors and rat TAAR<inf>1</inf> (most K<inf>i</inf> and EC<inf>50</inf>: <1 μM). The N-2-methoxybenzyl substitution of 2C drugs increased the binding affinity at serotonergic 5-HT<inf>2A</inf>, 5-HT<inf>2C</inf>, adrenergic α<inf>1</inf>, dopaminergic D<inf>1-3</inf>, and histaminergic H<inf>1</inf> receptors and monoamine transporters but reduced binding to 5-HT<inf>1A</inf> receptors and TAAR<inf>1</inf>. As a result, NBOMe drugs were very potent 5-HT<inf>2A</inf> receptor agonists (EC<inf>50</inf>: 0.04-0.5 μM) with high 5-HT<inf>2A</inf>/5-HT<inf>1A</inf> selectivity and affinity for adrenergic α<inf>1</inf> receptors (K<inf>i</inf>: 0.3-0.9 μM) and TAAR<inf>1</inf> (K<inf>i</inf>: 0.06-2.2 μM), similar to LSD, but not dopaminergic D<inf>1-3</inf> receptors (most K<inf>i</inf>: > 1 μM), unlike LSD. Conclusion The binding profile of NBOMe drugs predicts strong hallucinogenic effects, similar to LSD, but possibly more stimulant properties because of α<inf>1</inf> receptor interactions.
BACKGROUND: It has been an important issue to assess energy and nutrient intakes of children within the population to observe their nutrient consumption whether it is excessive or inadequate, by comparing to reference values in the applicable Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs), specifically among Jakarta population as a capital city of Indonesia. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to further perform an in-depth exploration of nutrient intake assessment in this population, particularly among 6- to 12-year-old (school age) children group in Jakarta. METHODS: Data obtained from 2nd Indonesian National Basic Health Research Survey (RISKESDAS) in a cross-sectional setting were analyzed. The main sample consisted of children age 6- to 12-year old randomly selected in Jakarta area (n = 945). A 24-hr dietary recall was used for assessing the nutrient intake. RESULTS: Energy intake for the total population was about 79.3% from the Indonesian Dietary Reference Intake (DRI) with adequate intake of protein (112.4%). There was an excessive intake of fat approximately about 193.4% and carbohydrate for about 150.5%, respectively. Fiber consumption was very low (18.3%). Children in Jakarta also consumed diets that provide marginal amount of key micronutrients mainly for thiamin (vitamin B1), vitamin C, and zinc (less than 60% Indonesian DRI). CONCLUSIONS: Children from lower SES, girls, and the older age groups need to be given additional attention, since their daily nutrient intake were less than the counterparts. This study also suggested that the first improvement strategies are to provide diets with less fat, lower glycemic index foods, as well as higher intake of thiamin, vitamin C, and zinc.
Objective: To study the evolution and variation of the genes encoding hemagglutinin (HA) proteins of H3N2 influenza virus strains prevalent in Guangdong during 2011-2015. Methods: Forty-eight H3N2 influenza virus strains prevalent in Guangdong during 2011-2015 were recruited in this study by using time-space sampling. The nucleotide sequences of HA genes of those strains were sequenced and compared with those of the H3N2 influenza virus strains prevalent worldwide. The mutations and antigenic variations in HA genes of Guangdong strains were analyzed by MEGA 5.05, BEAST v1.7.0 and BioEdit7.1.3. Results: The 48 H3N2 influenza virus strains prevalent in Guangdong shared 96.4%-100.00% homologies in nucleotide sequences. The Guangdong strains isolated during 2013-2015 shared 97.8%-98.7% homologies in nucleotide sequences with the southern hemisphere vaccine strain A/Switzerland/9715293/2013. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the evolution was upward along the main branch over time. The Guangdong strains mainly distributed in clade 3C.3a with some of the 2015 strains in clade 3C.2a. A total of 330 nucleotide mutations were detected in the HA genes of H3N2 influenza virus strains prevalent during 2011-2015 as compared with the HA gene of the vaccine strain A/Texas/50/2012, resulting in 116 amino acid mutations with 12 of them associating with 4 epitope mutations. The N241D (N225D) and K192C mutations located in the receptor binding sites (RBS) and the 190 helix of RBS, respectively. Conclusion: Amino acid mutations occurred in the antigenic epitopes of HA proteins of H3N2 influenza virus strains prevalent in Guangdong province during 2011-2015, which might give rise to antigenic drift resulting in the outbreak of influenza. Thus, it is necessary to strengthen the surveillance for influenza pathogens.
Objective: To detect ROS1 rearrangement using three different assays, including immunohistochemistry (IHC), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and to analyze the clinicopathologic features of ROS1 rearrangement in patients with lung adenocarcinoma. Methods: One hundred eighty-three consecutive patients with lung adenocarcinoma with operation and follow-up data were analyzed for ROS1 rearrangement by IHC, FISH, and RT-PCR. PCR products of the RT-PCR-positive samples were sequenced for confirmation of the specific fusion partners. Results: Three of the 183 (1.64%) cases were identified to be positive for ROS1 rearrangement through all three methods. The fusion patterns were CD74 e6-ROS1 e32, CD74 e6-ROS1 e34, and TPM3 e8-ROS1 e35, respectively. FISH-positive cases showed two types of signals, single 3′ signals (green) and split red and green signals. Using FISH as a standard method, the sensitivity and specificity of ROS1 IHC with 1+ staining or more were 100% and 96.67%, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of RT-PCR were both 100%. Univariate analysis identified female sex (P=0.044), Stage I disease (P,0.001), and ROS1-negative status (P=0.022) to be significantly associated with longer overall survival. Conclusion: IHC, FISH, and RT-PCR are all effective methods for the detection of ROS1 rearrangement. IHC would be a useful screening method in routine pathologic laboratories. RT-PCR can detect exact fusion patterns. ROS1 rearrangement may be a worse prognostic factor. The exact correlation of ROS1 rearrangement with prognosis and whether different fusion types are correlated with different responses to targeted therapy need to be further investigated.
Purpose: Scar formation is most frequently responsible for the failure of glaucoma filtration surgery. Retinoic acids are vitamin A derivatives that play diverse roles in development, immunity, and tissue repair. The effects of the retinoic acid receptor (RAR) γ agonist R667 on the contractility of human Tenon fibroblasts (HTFs) cultured in a three-dimensional collagen gel as well as on intraocular pressure (IOP) in a rat model of glaucoma filtration surgery were investigated. Methods: HTFs were cultured in a type I collagen gel, the contraction of which was evaluated by measurement of the gel diameter. The release of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) into culture supernatants was assessed with immunoblot analysis and gelatin zymography. Phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) was examined with immunoblot analysis, and production of fibronectin and type I collagen was measured with immunoassays. Results: R667 inhibited transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1)-induced collagen gel contraction mediated by HTFs in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, whereas an RARα agonist inhibited this process to a lesser extent and an RARβ agonist had no effect. TGF-β1-induced MMP-1 and MMP-3 release, FAK phosphorylation, and fibronectin and type I collagen production in HTFs were also attenuated by R667. Furthermore, R667 lowered IOP in rats after glaucoma filtration surgery. Conclusions: R667 inhibited TGF-β1-induced contraction and extracellular matrix synthesis in HTFs. Such effects might have contributed to the lowering of IOP by R667 in a rat model of glaucoma filtration surgery. RARγ agonists might thus prove effective for inhibition of scar formation after such surgery.
Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) may be recruited from bone marrow to sustain the metastatic switch in a number of solid cancers, including breast cancer (BC) and renal cellular carcinoma (RCC). Preventing EPC mobilization causes tumor shrinkage. Novel anti-angiogenic treatments have been introduced in therapy to inhibit VEGFR-2 signaling; unfortunately, these drugs blocked tumor angiogenesis in pre-clinical murine models, but resulted far less effective in human patients. Understanding the molecular mechanisms driving EPC proliferation and tubulogenesis in cancer patients could outline novel targets for alternative anti-angiogenic treatments. Store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE) regulates the growth of human EPCs, and it is mediated by the interaction between the endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-sensor, Stim1, and the plasmalemmal Ca2+ channels, Orai1 and TRPC1. EPCs do not belong to the neoplastic clone: thus, unlike tumor endothelium and neoplastic cells, they should not remodel their Ca2+ toolkit in response to tumor microenvironment. However, our recent work demonstrated that EPCs isolated from naïve RCC patients (RCC-EPCs) undergo a dramatic remodeling of their Ca2+ toolkit by displaying a remarkable drop in the endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ content, by down-regulating the expression of inositol-1,4,5-receptors (InsP3Rs), and by up-regulating Stim1, Orai1 and TRPC1. Moreover, EPCs are dramatically less sensitive to VEGF stimulation both in terms of Ca2+ signaling and of gene expression when isolated from tumor patients. Conversely, the pharmacological abolition of SOCE suppresses proliferation in these cells. These results question the suitability of VEGFR-2 as a therapeutically relevant target for anti-angiogenic treatments and hint at Orai1 and TRPC1 as more promising alternatives. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: 13th European Symposium on Calcium.
Edible flowers are commonly used in human nutrition and their consumption has increased in recent years. The aim of this study was to ascertain the nutritional composition and the content and profile of phenolic compounds of three edible flowers, monks cress (Tropaeolum majus), marigold (Tagetes erecta) and paracress (Spilanthes oleracea), and to determine the relationship between the presence of phenolic compounds and the antioxidant capacity. Proximate composition, total dietary fibre (TDF) and minerals were analysed according to official methods: total phenolic compounds (TPC) were determined with Folin-Ciocalteu’s reagent, whereas antioxidant capacity was evaluated using Trolox Equivalent Antioxidant Capacity (TEAC) and Oxygen Radical Absorbance Capacity (ORAC) assays. In addition, phenolic compounds were characterised by HPLC-DAD-MSn. In relation to the nutritional value, the edible flowers had a composition similar to that of other plant foods, with a high water and TDF content, low protein content and very low proportion of total fat—showing significant differences among samples. The levels of TPC compounds and the antioxidant capacity were significantly higher in T. erecta, followed by S. oleracea and T. majus. Thirty-nine different phenolic compounds were tentatively identified, with flavonols being the major compounds detected in all samples, followed by anthocyanins and hydroxycynnamic acid derivatives. In T. erecta small proportions of gallotannin and ellagic acid were also identified.
Well known for its anti-oxidative and anti-inflammation properties, curcumin is a polyphenol found in the rhizome of Curcuma longa. In this study, we evaluated the effects of curcumin on behavioral recovery, glial scar formation, tissue preservation, axonal sprouting, and inflammation after spinal cord injury (SCI) in maleWistar rats. The rats were randomized into two groups following a balloon compression injury at the level of T9-T10 of the spinal cord, namely vehicle- or curcumin-treated. Curcumin was applied locally on the surface of the injured spinal cord immediately following injury and then given intraperitoneally daily; the control rats were treated with vehicle in the same manner. Curcumin treatment improved behavioral recovery within the first week following SCI as evidenced by improved Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan (BBB) test and plantar scores, representing locomotor and sensory performance, respectively. Furthermore, curcumin treatment decreased glial scar formation by decreasing the levels of MIP1α, IL-2, and RANTES production and by decreasing NF-κB activity. These results, therefore, demonstrate that curcumin has a profound anti-inflammatory therapeutic potential in the treatment of spinal cord injury, especially when given immediately after the injury.
Cytokines are the key mediators of inflammation in the course of autoimmune arthritis and other immune-mediated diseases. Uncontrolled production of the pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interferon-γ (IFN-γ), tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and IL-17 can promote autoimmune pathology, whereas anti-inflammatory cytokines including IL-4, IL-10, and IL-27 can help control inflammation and tissue damage. The pro-inflammatory cytokines are the prime targets of the strategies to control rheumatoid arthritis (RA). For example, the neutralization of TNFa, either by engineered anti-cytokine antibodies or by soluble cytokine receptors as decoys, has proven successful in the treatment of RA. The activity of pro-inflammatory cytokines can also be downregulated either by using specific siRNA to inhibit the expression of a particular cytokine or by using small molecule inhibitors of cytokine signaling. Furthermore, the use of anti-inflammatory cytokines or cytokine antagonists delivered via gene therapy has proven to be an effective approach to regulate autoimmunity. Unexpectedly, under certain conditions, TNFα, IFN-γ, and few other cytokines can display anti-inflammatory activities. Increasing awareness of this phenomenon might help develop appropriate regimens to harness or avoid this effect. Furthermore, the relatively newer cytokines such as IL-32, IL-34 and IL-35 are being investigated for their potential role in the pathogenesis and treatment of arthritis.
Modifications of genes that encode proteins found exclusively in the tectorial membrane (TM) alter mechanical properties and produce a wide range of hearing deficits. However, the changes in TM physical properties responsible for these deficits remain unclear. In particular, the cochlear tuning of Tectb-/- mice is significantly sharper than that of TectaY1870C/+ mice, even though the stiffnesses of TectaY1870C/+ and Tectb-/- TMs are similarly reduced relative to wild-type TMs. Here we show that differences in TM wave properties that are governed by shear viscosity account for these differences in tuning. The shear viscosity of the TM results from the interaction of interstitial fluid with the porous structure of the TM's macromolecular matrix. In basal regions of the cochlea, nanoscale pores of TectaY1870C/+ TMs are significantly larger than those of Tectb-/- TMs. The larger pores in TectaY1870C/+ TMs gives rise to lower shear viscosity (by ∼70%), which in turn, reduces wave speed and increases wave decay constants relative to Tectb-/- TM wave properties. These results demonstrate the importance of TM porosity in cochlear tuning and that TM porosity, not stiffness, underlies the striking differences in hearing between TectaY1870C/+ and Tectb-/- mice.
This study was conducted to compare the physicochemical and sensory characteristics of Beef-bone broths prepared under atmospheric pressure (BBAP) and overpressure (BBOP). Beef-bone was boiled in water (bone/water=1:2, w/w) for 1, 2, 4, 6, and 12 h under atmospheric pressure and overpressure (121oC, 1.25 atm). The BBOP broth samples were found to contain significantly higher amounts of solid, crude protein, crude ash, collagen, and chondroitin sulfate than the BBAP broth samples for a given boiling time (p<0.05). In addition, the Ca and Mg contents in the BBAP samples were higher than those in the BBOP samples, whereas the P, Na, and K contents were higher in BBOP than BBAP. The L value of BBAP was also significantly higher than that of BBOP (p<0.05). Further, as the boiling time increased, turbidity increased in the BBAP samples. In the quantitative descriptive analysis, the BBOP samples exhibited stronger brownness, transparency, meaty off-odor, meaty off-flavor, and sulfuric odor than the BBAP samples.
Recent identification of a calmodulin binding site within prestin's C-terminus indicates that calcium can significantly alter prestin's operating voltage range as gauged by the Boltzmann parameter Vh (Keller et al., J. Neuroscience, 2014). We reasoned that those experiments may have identified the molecular substrate for the protein's tension sensitivity. In an effort to understand how this may happen, we evaluated the effects of turgor pressure on such shifts produced by calcium. We find that the shifts are induced by calcium's ability to reduce turgor pressure during whole cell voltage clamp recording. Clamping turgor pressure to 1kPa, the cell's normal intracellular pressure, completely counters the calcium effect. Furthermore, following unrestrained shifts, collapsing the cells abolishes induced shifts. We conclude that calcium does not work by direct action on prestin's conformational state. The possibility remains that calcium interaction with prestin alters water movements within the cell, possibly via its anion transport function.
Water quality monitoring requires characterization of a range of organic and inorganic components present within the sample. We present here initial findings in the design of a novel system to detect contaminants by characterizing their characteristic fluorescence fingerprints in a 3-dimensional excitation emission matrix. This is a proof of principle for a system that would then use principal component analysis to diagnose the individual contaminants present in real world samples. A high-resolution fluorescence spectrometer was used to characterize components and potential pollutants in water samples along with samples taken at two different times from the feed into a lake. Several types of fluorescent signals were observed including the commonly used UV 'protein-like' fluorescence as well as humic-like or yellow substances fluorescence. Development of this method will lead to a technique that will allow rapid identification of possible contaminants in water samples.
Each subunit of human hemoglobin (HbA) stores an oxygen molecule (O2) in the binding site (BS) cavity near the heme group. The BS is buried in the interior of the subunit so that there is a debate over the O2 entry pathways from solvent to the BS; histidine gate or multiple pathways. To elucidate the O2 entry pathways, we executed ensemble molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of T-state tetramer HbA in high concentration O2 solvent to simulate spontaneous O2 entry from solvent into the BS. By analyzing 128 independent 8 ns MD trajectories by intrinsic pathway identification by clustering (IPIC) method, we found 141 and 425 O2 entry events into the BS of the α and β subunits, respectively. In both subunits, we found that multiple O2 entry pathways through inside cavities play a significant role for O2 entry process of HbA. The rate constants of O2 entry estimated from the MD trajectories correspond to the experimentally observed values. In addition, by analyzing monomer myoglobin, we verified that the high O2 concentration condition can reproduce the ratios of each multiple pathway in the one-tenth lower O2 concentration condition. These indicate the validity of the multiple pathways obtained in our MD simulations.
The Nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) pathway selectively degrades mRNAs harboring premature termination codons (PTCs) but also regulates the abundance of a large number of cellular RNAs. The central role of NMD in the control of gene expression requires the existence of buffering mechanisms that tightly regulate the magnitude of this pathway. Here, we will focus on the mechanism of NMD with an emphasis on the role of RNA helicases in the transition from NMD complexes that recognize a PTC to those that promote mRNA decay. We will also review recent strategies aimed at uncovering novel trans-acting factors and their functional role in the NMD pathway. Finally, we will describe recent progress in the study of the physiological role of the NMD response.
Long-term plasticity at parallel fibre (PF)-Purkinje cell (PC) synapses is thought to mediate cerebellar motor learning. It is known that calcium-calmodulin dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is essential for plasticity in the cerebellum. Recently, Van Woerden et al. demonstrated that the β isoform of CaMKII regulates the bidirectional inversion of PF-PC plasticity. Because the cellular events that underlie these experimental findings are still poorly understood, our work aims at unravelling how βCaMKII controls the direction of plasticity at PF-PC synapses. We developed a bidirectional plasticity model that replicates the experimental observations by Van Woerden et al. Simulation results obtained from this model indicate the mechanisms that underlie the bidirectional inversion of cerebellar plasticity. As suggested by Van Woerden et al., the filamentous actin binding enables βCaMKII to regulate the bidirectional plasticity at PF-PC synapses. Our model suggests that the reversal of long-term plasticity in PCs is based on a combination of mechanisms that occur at different calcium concentrations.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the arterial wall with lipid-laden lesions, involving a complex interaction between multiple different cell types and cytokine networks. Inflammatory responses mark all stages of atherogenesis: from lipid accumulation in the intima to plaque formation and eventual rupture. One of the most important regulators of inflammation is the transcription factor nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), which is activated through the canonical and noncanonical pathways in response to various stimuli. NF-κB has long been regarded as a proatherogenic factor, because it is implicated in multiple pathological processes during atherogenesis, including foam cell formation, vascular inflammation, proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells, arterial calcification, and plaque progression. In contrast, inhibition of NF-κB signaling has been shown to protect against atherosclerosis. This chapter aims to discuss recent progress on the roles of NF-κB in lipid metabolism and atherosclerosis and also to highlight its potential therapeutic benefits.
Plant genome analyses, including Arabidopsis thaliana showed a large gene family of plant receptor kinases with various extracellular ligand-binding domain. Now intensively studies to understand physiological and cellular functions for higher plant receptor kinases in diverse and complex biological processes including plant growth, development, ligands perception including steroid hormone and plant-microbe interactions. Brassinosteroids (BRs) as a one of well know steroid hormone are plant growth hormones that control biomass accumulation and also tolerance to many biotic and abiotic stress conditions and hence are of relevance to agriculture. BRI1 receptor kinase, which is localized in plasma membrane in the cell sense BRs and it bind to a receptor protein known as BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1). Recently, we reported that BRI1 and its co-receptor, BRI1-ASSOCIATED KINASE (BAK1) autophosphorylated on tyrosine residue (s) in vitro and in vivo and thus are dual-specificity kinases. Other plant receptor kinases are also phosphorylated on tyrosine residue (s). Post-Translational modifications (PTMs) can be studied by altering the residue modified by directed mutagenesis to mimic the modified state or to prevent the modification. These approaches are useful to not only characterize the regulatory role of a given modification, but may also provide opportunities for plant improvement.
We have developed an odor sensing system based on insect olfactory receptor (OR) and fluorescent instrumentation. When an odorant is captured by an OR (OR56a) expressed on Sf21 cell, calcium indicator protein (GCaMP6) is activated by calcium ion flowing through the OR into the cell. The intensity change of the fluorescent light can be regarded as a sensor output. Since fluorescent light from the cell was very weak, the measurement should be done in the dark condition. The measurement quality deteriorates if the ambient light is included. Thus, a lock-in measurement technique was incorporated to the system to overcome the problem of the ambient light together with the fluorescent image. The lock-in technique enables the detection of light synchronous with the modulated excitation light under the ambient light. This technique is also useful to improve the signal to noise ratio. In this work, we were successful in the detection of 500 nM geosmin even under the condition with the ambient light, whereas it was not clearly detected by the system without lock-in technique.
In recent years the statistical mechanics of non-spherical molecules, such as polypeptide chains and protein molecules, has garnered considerable attention as the phase behavior of these systems has important scientific and health implications. More recently, it has been realized that surface binding may have a considerable impact on this behavior. With this in mind, we examine here the role of surface interactions on the phase behavior of Y-shaped molecules (a simplified model of immunoglobulin) using grand-canonical Monte Carlo simulation. In particular, we investigate the critical behavior of a system of such molecules on a hexagonal lattice using histogram reweighting, multicanonical sampling, and finite-size scaling. After obtaining the critical properties of the three-dimensional bulk system, we investigate the impact of a patterned solid surface on these properties as a function of patterning geometry and surface interaction strength. Our results suggest avenues for tailoring phase behavior by selectively controlling surface characteristics.
In this review, we summarized the trends of genomics and transcriptomics research on peach, a model species of Rosaceae. Peach genome maps have been developed from various progeny groups with many next-generation sequencing (NGS) based single nucleotide polymorphism markers. Molecular markers of qualitative traits and quantitative trait loci (QTL) such as fruit characteristics, blooming date, and disease resistance have been analyzed. Among many characteristics, markers related to flesh softening and flesh adhesion are useful for marker assisted selection. Through comparative genomics, peach genome has been compared to the genome of Arabidopsis, Populus, Malus, and Fragaria species. Through transcriptomics and proteomics, fruit growth and development, and flavonoid synthesis, postharvest related transcriptomes and disease resistance related proteins have been reported. Recently, development of NGS based markers, construction of core collection of germplasm, and genotyping of various progenies have been preceded. In the near future, accurate QTL analysis and identification of useful genes are expected to establish a foundation for effective molecular breeding.
Safflower (Carthamus tinctorius) seeds are wellknown traditional oriental medicines that have long been used for the remedies of blood stasis and bone formation in east Asia. In this study, ethyl acetate (EtOAc) was used for extraction of the main chemical compounds from C.Tinctorius seeds. Four major compounds were identified, acacetin, cosmosiin, N-feruloyl serotonin and N-(p-coumaroyl) serotonin. Each compound was evaluated for its inhibitory activity against the inflammatory process of macrophages. All compounds significantly inhibited production of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated nitric oxide (NO) and pro-inflammatory cytokines. The protein levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) were dramatically decreased by serotonins in a dose-dependent manner in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages. These results suggest that serotonin derivatives from safflower seeds may reduce inflammationrelated diseases.
We have applied the fluorescence quenching modeling to study the process of interaction of sulpiride with human serum albumin (HSA) and bovine (BSA). Albumin is more abundant protein in blood and it emits fluorescence when excited by 260-295 nm. Sulpiride is an atypical antipsychotic used in the treatment of many psychiatric disorders. As sulpiride is fluorescent, we developed a mathematical model to analyzing the interaction of two fluorescent substances. This model was able to separate the albumin fluorescence from the quencher fluorescence. Results have shown that sulpiride quenches the fluorescence of both albumins by a static process, due to the complex formation drugalbumin. The association constants calculated for sulpiride-HSA was 2.20 (± 0.08) × 104 M-1 at 37° C, and 5.46 (± 0.20) × 104 M-1, 25 ° C, and the primary binding site to sulpiride in the albumin is located closer to the subdomain IB.
A mouse lacking CEACAM16, a member of the carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule (CEACAM) family of proteins, shows changes in tectorial membrane (TM) structure including loss of a defined striated-sheet matrix, absence of Hensen's stripe and increased porosity. In spite of these changes, thresholds for distortion product emissions (DPOAEs) and auditory brainstem responses (ABR) are near normal for most frequencies in the mouse audiogram [11]. In contrast, stimulus frequency emissions (SFOAE) are larger in knockouts (KO) and the incidence of spontaneous emissions (SOAE) is ∼70% [5]. This latter statistic is remarkable considering that SOAEs are uncommon in normal wild-type (WT) mice. In order to understand how the TM might influence emissions, SFOAE magnitude and phase were examined and group delays computed. As in humans, an approximately one-cycle phase change is observed in association with SFOAE fine structure. In addition, CEACAM16 KO mice and their WT controls showed similar group delays/phase slopes indicating no obvious changes in the mechanisms associated with emission generation.
Hereditary deafness affects about 1 in 2000 children and GJB2 gene mutation is most frequent cause for this disease in the world. GJB2 encodes connexin26 (Cx26), a component in cochlear gap junction. Recently, we found macromolecular change of gap junction plaques with two different types of Cx26 mutation as major classification of clinical case, one is a model of dominant negative type, Cx26R75W+ and the other is conditional gene deficient mouse, Cx26f/fP0Cre as a model for insufficiency of gap junction protein [6]. Gap junction composed mainly of Cx26 and Cx30 in wild type mice formed large planar gap junction plaques (GJP). In contrast, Cx26R75W+ and Cx26f/fP0Cre showed fragmented small round GJPs around the cell border. In Cx26f/fP0Cre, some of the cells with Cx26 expression due to their cellular mosaicism showed normal large GJP with Cx26 and Cx30 only at the cell junction site between two Cx26 positive cells. These indicate that bilateral Cx26 expressions from both adjacent cells are essential for the formation of the cochlear linear GJP, and it is not compensated by other cochlear Connexins such as Connexin30. In the present study, we demonstrated a new molecular pathology in most common hereditary deafness with different types of Connexin26 mutations, and this machinery can be a new target for drag design of hereditary deafness.
Electronic absorption spectra and quantum chemical calculations of the radical cations of m-terphenyl tert-butyl thioethers, where the S-t-Bu bond is forced to be perpendicular to the central phenyl ring, show the occurrence of through-space [π⋯S⋯π]+ bonding interactions which lead to a stabilization of the thioether radical cations. In the corresponding methyl derivatives there is a competition between delocalization of the hole that is centered on a p-AO of the S atom into the π-system of the central phenyl ring or through space into the flanking phenyl groups, which leads to a mixture of planar and perpendicular conformations in the radical cation. Adding a second m-terphenyl tert-butyl thioether moiety does not lead to further delocalization; the spin and charge remain in one of the two halves of the radical cation. These findings have interesting implications with regard to the role of methionines as hopping stations in electron transfer through proteins.
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) has an annual mortality approaching that of breast and prostate cancer. Although sensitive to initial chemotherapy, SCLC rapidly develops resistance, leading to less effective second-line therapies. SCLC cells often overexpress Bcl-2, which protects cells from apoptosis both by sequestering pro-apoptotic family members and by modulating inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R)-mediated calcium signaling. BH3-mimetic agents such as ABT-263 disrupt the former activity but have limited activity in SCLC patients. Here we report for the first time that Bcl-2-IP3 receptor disruptor-2 (BIRD-2), a decoy peptide that binds to the BH4 domain of Bcl-2 and prevents Bcl-2 interaction with IP3Rs, induces cell death in a wide range of SCLC lines, including ABT-263-resistant lines. BIRD-2-induced death of SCLC cells appears to be a form of caspase-independent apoptosis mediated by calpain activation. By targeting different regions of the Bcl-2 protein and different mechanisms of action, BIRD-2 and ABT-263 induce cell death synergistically. Based on these findings, we propose that targeting the Bcl-2-IP3R interaction be pursued as a novel therapeutic strategy for SCLC, either by developing BIRD-2 itself as a therapeutic agent or by developing small-molecule inhibitors that mimic BIRD-2.
Objective: To investigate the effects of a novel synthetic immunostimulator CH2b containing thiazolidin-4-one on the function of invariant nature killer T (iNKT) cells isolated from patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Methods: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) isolated from patients with active RA were in vitrocultured with α-Galcer and IL-2. The iNKT cells were separated by using magnetic activated cell sorting (MACS) method. The effects of CH2b on the proliferation of iNKT cells were analyzed by using MTT assay. MILLIPLEX MAP Human Cytokine/Chemokine kit was used to measure the levels of IFN-γ and IL-4 in the supernatants of iNKT cell culture. The expressions of IFN-γ and IL-4 at mRNA level in iNKT cells were analyzed by RT-PCR. Western blot assay was used to detect the levels of T-bet and GATA-3 in iNKT cells. Results: CH2b significantly enhanced the proliferation of IL-2 activated iNKT cells isolated from the patients with active RA. CH2b promoted the secretion of IL-4, resulting in a decrease in the ratio of IFN-γ/IL-4. Moreover, CH2b promoted the expressions of GATA-3 and IL-4 at mRNA level in iNKT cells. Conclusion: The novel immunostimulator, CH2b, might enhance the immunoregulatory effects of iNKT cells by promoting the GATA-3 pathway-mediated secretion of Th2-like cytokines and inducing the differentiation of Th0 to Th2 cells.
Fucoidan (FCD) is a well-known bioactive constituent of seaweed extract that possess a wide spectrum of activities in biological systems, including anti-cancer, anti-inflammation and modulation of immune systems. However, evidence on the effects of FCD on exercise performance and physical fatigue is limited. Therefore, we investigated the potential beneficial effects of FCD on ergogenic and anti-fatigue functions following physiological challenge. Male ICR mice from three groups (n = 8 per group) were orally administered FCD for 21 days at 0, 310 and 620 mg/kg/day, which were, respectively, designated the vehicle, FCD-1X and FCD-2X groups. The results indicated that the FCD supplementations increased the grip strength (p = 0.0002) and endurance swimming time (p = 0.0195) in a dose-depend manner. FCD treatments also produced dose-dependent decreases in serum levels of lactate (p < 0.0001) and ammonia (p = 0.0025), and also an increase in glucose level (p < 0.0001) after the 15-min swimming test. In addition, FCD supplementation had few subchronic toxic effects. Therefore, we suggest that long-term supplementation with FCD can have a wide spectrum of bioactivities on health promotion, performance improvement and anti-fatigue.
In using solar energy, water, CO2 and mineral salts to produce a large amount of biomass for the food chain, cyanobacteria constitute the first biological barrier against the entry of toxics into the food chain. In addition, cyanobacteria have the potential for the solar-driven carbon-neutral production of biofuels. However, cyanobacteria are often challenged by toxic reactive oxygen species generated under intense illumination, i.e., when their production of photosynthetic electrons exceeds what they need for the assimilation of inorganic nutrients. Furthermore, in requiring high amounts of various metals for growth, cyanobacteria are also frequently affected by drastic changes in metal availabilities. They are often challenged by heavy metals, which are increasingly spread out in the environment through human activities, and constitute persistent pollutants because they cannot be degraded. Consequently, it is important to analyze the protection against oxidative and metal stresses in cyanobacteria because these ancient organisms have developed most of these processes, a large number of which have been conserved during evolution. This review summarizes what is known regarding these mechanisms, emphasizing on their crosstalk.
In a peptide or protein, the sequence of aromatic residue-proline or proline-aromatic residue shows a high propensity in forming cis prolyl bonds due to aromatic-proline interactions. In this work, we designed and prepared the polyproline peptides with aromatic amino acids (F, Y, W) incorporated into their N-terminal or C-terminal end to investigate the effects of a terminal aromatic residue on polyproline conformation and the transition kinetics of polyproline I (PPI) to polyproline II (PPII) helices. Circular dichroism measurements reveal that the N-terminal aromatic-proline interaction imposes a more pronounced consequence on the forming propensity of PPI conformation than does the C-terminal aromatic-proline interaction in n-propanol. The propensity of forming PPI is correlated with the strength of aromatic-proline interactions in the order of Tyr-Pro > Trp-Pro > Phe-Pro. In aqueous solution, kinetic studies indicate that aromatic-substitution effects are nondirectional and indistinct on the PPI → PPII conversion rates, suggesting that aromatic-proline interactions may not be an important factor in this process. In addition, the temperature-dependent kinetics shows that the hydrophobicity of aromatic side chain may play a critical role affecting the activation enthalpy and entropy of the conversion of PPI to PPII, providing new insights into the folding of polyproline helices.
Urinary tract infection (UTI) is the second most common infection in humans after those involving the respiratory tract. This results not only in huge annual economic costs, but in decreased workforce productivity and high patient morbidity. Most infections are caused by uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC). Antibiotic treatment is generally effective for eradication of the infecting strain; however, documentation of increasing antibiotic resistance, allergic reaction to certain pharmaceuticals, alteration of normal gut flora, and failure to prevent recurrent infections represent significant barriers to treatment. As a result, approaches to prevent UTI such as vaccination represent a gap that must be addressed. Our laboratory has made progress toward development of a preventive vaccine against UPEC. The long-term research goal is to prevent UTIs in women with recurrent UTIs. Our objective has been to identify the optimal combination of protective antigens for inclusion in an effective UTI vaccine, optimal adjuvant, optimal dose, and optimal route of delivery. We hypothesized that a multi-subunit vaccine elicits antibody that protects against experimental challenge with UPEC strains. We have systematically identified four antigens that can individually protect experimentally infected mice from colonization of the bladder and/or kidneys by UPEC when administered intranasally with cholera toxin (CT) as an adjuvant. To advance the vaccine for utility in humans, we will group the individual antigens, all associated with iron acquisition (IreA, Hma, IutA, FyuA), into an effective combination to establish a multi-subunit vaccine. We demonstrated for all four vaccine antigens that antigen-specific serum IgG represents a strong correlate of protection in vaccinated mice. High antibody titers correlate with low colony forming units (CFUs) of UPEC following transurethral challenge of vaccinated mice. However, the contribution of cell-mediated immunity cannot be ruled out and must be investigated experimentally. We have demonstrated that antibodies bind to the surface of UPEC expressing the antigens. Sera from women with and without histories of UTI have been tested for antibody levels to vaccine antigens. Our results validate iron acquisition as a target for vaccination against UTI.
Helminths express various carbohydrate-containing glycoconjugates on their surface, and they release glycan-rich excretion/secretion products that can be very important in their life cycles, infection and pathology. Recent evidence suggests that parasite glycoconjugates could play a role in the evasion of the immune response, leading to a modified Th2-polarized immune response that favors parasite survival in the host. Nevertheless, there is limited information about the nature or function of glycans produced by the trematode Fasciola hepatica, the causative agent of fasciolosis. In this paper, we investigate whether glycosylated molecules from F. hepatica participate in the modulation of host immunity. We also focus on dendritic cells, since they are an important target of immune-modulation by helminths, affecting their activity or function. Our results indicate that glycans from F. hepatica promote the production of IL-4 and IL-10, suppressing IFNγ production. During infection, this parasite is able to induce a semi-mature phenotype of DCs expressing low levels of MHCII and secrete IL-10. Furthermore, we show that parasite glycoconjugates mediate the modulation of LPS-induced maturation of DCs since their oxidation restores the capacity of LPS-treated DCs to secrete high levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-12/23p40 and low levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Inhibition assays using carbohydrates suggest that the immune-modulation is mediated, at least in part, by the recognition of a mannose specific-CLR that signals by recruiting the phosphatase Php2. The results presented here contribute to the understanding of the role of parasite glycosylated molecules in the modulation of the host immunity and might be useful in the design of vaccines against fasciolosis.
The concept of food addiction (FA) is a potentially important contributing factor to the development of obesity in the general population; however, little is known about the hormonal and dietary differences between obesity with and without FA. Therefore, the aim of our study was to explore potential biomarkers, including various hormones and neuropeptides, which regulate appetite and metabolism, and dietary components that could potentially differentiate obesity with and without FA. Of the 737 adults recruited from the general Newfoundland population, 58 food-addicted and non-food-addicted overweight/obese individuals (FAO, NFO) matched for age, sex, BMI and physical activity were selected. A total of 34 neuropeptides, gut hormones, pituitary polypeptide hormones and adipokines were measured in fasting serum. We found that the FAO group had lower levels of TSH, TNF-α and amylin, but higher levels of prolactin, as compared to NFO group. The total calorie intake (per kg body weight), the dietary intake of fat (per g/kg body weight, per BMI and per percentage of trunk fat) and the percent calorie intake from fat and carbohydrates (g/kg) was higher in the FAO group compared to the NFO group. The FAO subjects consumed more sugar, minerals (including sodium, potassium, calcium and selenium), fat and its components (such as saturated, monounsaturated and trans fat), omega 3 and 6, vitamin D and gamma-tocopherol compared to the NFO group. To our knowledge, this is the first study indicating possible differences in hormonal levels and micro-nutrient intakes between obese individuals classified with and without food addiction. The findings provide insights into the mechanisms by which FA could contribute to obesity.
Lung adenocarcinoma with a micropapillary pattern (MPPAC) has recently drawn increased attention among researchers. Micropapillary-predominant adenocarcinoma (MPA), which is defined by micropapillary pattern (MPP), is the primary histological pattern observed semiquantitatively in 5% increments on resection specimens, and MPA was formally determined to be a new histological subtype according to the new multidisciplinary classification in 2011. According to published studies, MPPAC is most common in males and nonsmokers and is associated with lymphatic invasion, pleural invasion, and lymph node metastases. MPPAC often presents as part-solid and lobulated nodules in computed tomography scans. MPP tends to have a higher maximum standardized uptake value as determined by fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography combined with computed tomography, indicating a high risk of recurrence. Molecular markers, including vimentin, napsin A, phosphorylated c-Met, cytoplasmic maspin, Notch-1, MUC1, and tumoral CD10, may have higher expression in MPPAC than other subtypes; conversely, markers such as MUC4 and surfactant apoprotein A have lower expression in MPPAC. MPPAC with EGFR mutations can benefit from treatment with EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Furthermore, a complete lobectomy may be more suitable than limited resection for MPPAC because of the low sensitivity of intraoperative frozen sections and the high risk of lymph node metastasis. MPA benefits more from adjuvant chemotherapy than do other histological subtypes, whereas MPA does not benefit from adjuvant radiotherapy. Of note, MPP is associated with poor prognosis in early-stage lung adenocarcinoma, but the prognostic value of MPP is controversial in advanced-stage lung adenocarcinoma.
Acquired aplastic anemia is an immune-mediated disease, in which T cells target hematopoietic cells; at presentation, the bone marrow is replaced by fat. It was reported that bone marrow adipocytes were negative regulators of hematopoietic microenvironment. To examine the role of adipocytes in bone marrow failure, we investigated peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor gamma, a key transcription factor in adipogenesis, utilizing an antagonist of this factor called bisphenol-A-diglycidyl-ether. While bisphenol-A-diglycidyl-ether inhibited adipogenesis as expected, it also suppressed T cell infiltration of bone marrow, reduced plasma inflammatory cytokines, decreased expression of multiple inflammasome genes, and ameliorated marrow failure. In vitro, bisphenol-A-diglycidyl-ether suppressed activation and proliferation, and reduced phospholipase C gamma 1 and nuclear factor of activated T-cells 1 expression, as well as inhibiting calcium flux in T cells. The in vivo effect of bisphenol-A-diglycidyl-ether on T cells was confirmed in a second immune-mediated bone marrow failure model, using different strains and non-major histocompatibility antigen mismatched: bisphenol-A-diglycidyl-ether ameliorated marrow failure by inhibition of T cell infiltration of bone marrow. Our data indicate that peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor gamma antagonists may attenuate murine immune-mediated bone marrow failure, at least in part, by suppression of T cell activation, which might hold implications in the application of peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor gamma antagonists in immune-mediated pathophysiologies, both in the laboratory and in the clinic. Genetically “fatless” mice developed bone marrow failure with accumulation of marrow adipocytes in our model, even in the absence of body fat, suggesting different mechanisms of systematic and marrow adipogenesis and physiologic versus pathophysiologic fat accumulation.
We previously reported the frequent overexpression of HOX Antisense Intergenic RNA (HOTAIR) in human cervical cancer, which was significantly correlated with tumor progression and poor prognosis. In the present study, we investigated the detailed biological functions of HOTAIR in cervical cancer. In vitro, upregulation of HOTAIR inhibited apoptosis and promoted cellular proliferation, cell cycle progression, migration, and invasion; on the contrast, downregulation of HOTAIR induced more apoptosis, suppressed cellular proliferation, cell cycle, migration, and invasion. Moreover, a high level of HOTAIR was notably associated with radio-resistance and downregulation of p21 in the primary cultured cervical cancer cells. Further, we demonstrated that elevated HOTAIR could induce radio-resistance via inhibiting p21 in HeLa cells, while knockdown of HOTAIR upregulated p21 and consequentially increased the radio-sensitivity of C33A cells. Consistently, stable knockdown of HOTAIR significantly suppressed tumor growth and sensitized cervical cancer to radiotherapy in vivo. In conclusion, HOTAIR served as an onco-lncRNA in cervical cancer which could enhance various aggressive biological behaviors. Moreover, we proved that HOTAIR execute its functions mainly through inhibiting the p21 expression. These results proposed that targeting HOTAIR might be a potent therapeutic strategy in cervical cancer, especially for those patients who accepted radiotherapy.
As part of a larger investigation into three emerging disease syndromes highlighted by conjunctivitis and pharyngitis, systemic lymphoid proliferation and encephalitis, and lymphonodular skin infiltrates in farmed saltwater crocodiles (Crocodylus porosus) and one emerging syndrome of systemic lymphoid proliferation in captive freshwater crocodiles (Crocodylus johnstoni), cytopathic effects (CPE), including syncytial cell formation, were observed in primary crocodile cell lines exposed to clarified tissue homogenates from affected crocodiles. Ten cell cultures with CPE were then screened for herpesviruses using two broadly-reactive herpesvirus PCRs. Amplicons were obtained from 9 of 10 cell cultures and were sequenced. Three novel herpesviruses were discovered and the phylogenetic analysis of these viruses showed there was a 63% Bayesian posterior probability value supporting these viruses clustering with the subfamily Alphaherpesvirinae, and 100% posterior probability of clustering with a clade containing the Alphaherpesvirinae and other unassigned reptile herpesviruses. It is proposed that they are named Crocodyline herpesvirus (CrHV) 1, 2 and 3. CrHV1 and 2 were only isolated from saltwater crocodiles and CrHV3 was only isolated from freshwater crocodiles. A duplex PCR was designed that was able to detect these herpesviruses in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues, a sample type that neither of the broadly-reactive PCRs was able to detect these herpesviruses in. This work describes the isolation, molecular detection and phylogeny of these novel herpesviruses but the association that they have with the emerging disease syndromes requires further investigation.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
A second enzyme that removes acetyl groups from lysine residues in E. coli been discovered and represents the founding member of a new enzyme family.
Background: The cestode Echinococcus multilocularis is the causative agent of human alveolar echinococcosis (AE). However, this life-threatening disease is still difficult to treat and control, due to the lack of efficient drugs and vaccines. Excretory/secretory (ES) proteins are crucial for parasite survival and represent potential preferred targets for novel intervention strategies. However, the ES protein features in this parasite have been poorly investigated until now. The current study was carried out to identify and characterise a repertoire of ES proteins in E. multilocularis at the genome-wide level. Methods: Here we predicted and functionally annotated the classical and non-classical ES proteins, and comprehensively compared the features and evolution of ES and non-ES proteins in E. multilocularis genome using an integration of bioinformatics tools. The intervention target and antigen potentials as well as the transcription information were also investigated. Results: Computational analysis of the E. multilocularis proteins identified 673 putative ES proteins (6.4 %), of which 617 (91.68 %) could be supported by transcription analyses. The predicted ES proteins in E. multilocularis were mostly represented by molecular functions of protease inhibitors, proteases, glycoside hydrolases, immunoglobulin-like folds and growth factors. Analysis of the ratio between synonymous and non-synonymous substitution rates (dN/dS) revealed no significant difference of the evolution selection pressure on ES and non-ES protein coding genes. ES proteins showed higher antigenic density measured by AAR values as compared with the transmembrane proteins but had no significant difference of that feature with intracellular proteins. Additionally, 383 possible ideal drug targets were identified in ES proteins, of which four proteins have corresponding known drugs. Conclusions: The present study is the first to identify a repertoire of predicted ES proteins at the genome-wide level in E. multilocularis. The comprehensive analysis provides some novel understanding of the parasite ES protein features and a valuable resource of potential targets for future experimental studies to develop new intervention tools against this parasite.
In eukaryotes, the interaction between members of the monothiol glutaredoxin family and members of the BolA-like protein family has been involved in iron metabolism. To investigate the still unknown functional role of the interaction between human glutaredoxin-3 (GRX3) and its protein partner BOLA2, we characterized at the atomic level the interaction of apo BOLA2 with the apo and holo states of GRX3 and studied the role of BOLA2 in the GRX3-dependent anamorsin maturation pathway. From these studies, it emerged that apo GRX3 and apo BOLA2 form a heterotrimeric complex, composed by two BOLA2 molecules and one GRX3 molecule. This complex is able to bind two [2Fe-2S]2+ clusters, each being bridged between a BOLA2 molecule and a monothiol glutaredoxin domain of GRX3, and to transfer both [2Fe-2S]2+ clusters to apo anamorsin producing its mature holo state. Collectively, the data suggest that the heterotrimeric complex can work as a [2Fe-2S]2+ cluster transfer component in cytosolic Fe/S protein maturation pathways.
Objective To diagnose muscular dystrophy using Western blot (WB) by improving the method of the protein extraction. Method Firstly, we compared the effect of different sample buffer solutions and processing methods on the extraction of muscle protein in rats, then selected the appropriate extracting method and the process of the muscular protein. Results We put the selected sample buffer into the micro-sample, then mixed. The concentration of the extracting protein was much more, and the loss during the process was much less. We extracted enough protein in 62 cases. The protein bands were showed clearly by WB, and the abnormal protein bands were shown in some patients. Compared with the results of immunohistochemical staining detected the severe abnormal expressions of Dys-R, Dys-C, and Dys-N in the specimens, we did not detect the corresponding target band in WB. We detected the target protein band of the specimens were abnormal position, light or normal staining in WB, while Dys were mildly expressed in immunohistochemical staining. Conclusions The improved protein extraction method can save the muscle tissue, and the protein bands can be used for diagnosing the muscular dystrophy. For clinically suspected patients with dystrophinopathy, if normal or mild deficiency is shown by immunohistochemistry, WB should be applied to detect the dystrophin protein band.
Identification of residue-residue contacts from primary sequence can be used to guide protein structure prediction. Using Escherichia coli CcdB as the test case, we describe an experimental method termed saturation-suppressor mutagenesis to acquire residue contact information. In this methodology, for each of five inactive CcdB mutants, exhaustive screens for suppressors were performed. Proximal suppressors were accurately discriminated from distal suppressors based on their phenotypes when present as single mutants. Experimentally identified putative proximal pairs formed spatial constraints to recover >98% of native-like models of CcdB from a decoy dataset. Suppressor methodology was also applied to the integral membrane protein, diacylglycerol kinase A where the structures determined by X-ray crystallography and NMR were significantly different. Suppressor as well as sequence co-variation data clearly point to the Xray structure being the functional one adopted in vivo. The methodology is applicable to any macromolecular system for which a convenient phenotypic assay exists.
Sugars are often used as stabilizers of protein formulations during freeze-drying. However, not all sugars are equally suitable for this purpose. Using in-line near-infrared spectroscopy during freeze-drying, it is shown here that hydrogen bond formation during freeze-drying, under secondary drying conditions in particular, can be related to the preservation of the functionality and structure of proteins during storage. The disaccharide trehalose was best capable of forming hydrogen bonds with the model protein, lactate dehydrogenase, thereby stabilizing it, followed by the molecularly flexible oligosaccharide inulin 4 kDa. The molecularly rigid oligo- and polysaccharides dextran 5 kDa and 70 kDa, respectively, formed the least amount of hydrogen bonds and provided least stabilization of the protein. It is concluded that smaller and molecularly more flexible sugars are less affected by steric hindrance, allowing them to form more hydrogen bonds with the protein, thereby stabilizing it better.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Introduction: Dengue virus (DENV) is principally transmitted by the Aedes aegypti mosquito. To date, mosquito population control remains the key strategy for reducing the continuing spread of DENV. The focus on the development of new vector control strategies through an understanding of the mosquito-virus relationship is essential, especially targeting the midgut, which is the first mosquito organ exposed to DENV infection. Methodology: A cDNA library derived from female adult A. aegypti mosquito midgut cells was established using the switching mechanism at the 5’ end of the RNA transcript (SMART), in combination with a highly potent recombination machinery of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Gal4-based yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) assays were performed against DENV-2 proteins (E, prM, M, and NS1). Mammalian two-hybrid (M2H) and double immunofluorescence assays (IFA) were conducted to validate the authenticity of the three selected interactions. Results: The cDNA library was of good quality based on its transformation efficiency, cell density, titer, and the percentage of insert size. A total of 36 midgut proteins interacting with DENV-2 proteins were identified, some involved in nucleic acid transcription, oxidoreductase activity, peptidase activity, and ion binding. Positive outcomes were obtained from the three selected interactions validated using M2H and double IFA assays. Conclusions: The identified proteins have different biological activities that may aid in the virus replication pathway. Therefore, the midgut cDNA library is a valuable tool for identifying DENV-2 interacting proteins. The positive outcomes of the three selected proteins validated supported the quality of the cDNA library and the robustness of the Y2H mechanisms.
Reversible lysine acetylation is one of the most important protein posttranslational modifications that plays essential roles in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. However, only a few lysine deacetylases (KDACs) have been identified in prokaryotes, perhaps in part due to their limited sequence homology. Herein, we developed a ‘clip-chip’ strategy to enable unbiased, activity-based discovery of novel KDACs in the Escherichia coli proteome. In-depth biochemical characterization confirmed that YcgC is a serine hydrolase involving Ser200 as the catalytic nucleophile for lysine deacetylation and does not use NAD+ or Zn2+ like other established KDACs. Further, in vivo characterization demonstrated that YcgC regulates transcription by catalyzing deacetylation of Lys52 and Lys62 of a transcriptional repressor RutR. Importantly, YcgC targets a distinct set of substrates from the only known E. coli KDAC CobB. Analysis of YcgC’s bacterial homologs confirmed that they also exhibit KDAC activity. YcgC thus represents a novel family of prokaryotic KDACs.
Background: The periodontal disease is caused by a set of inflammatory disorders characterized by periodontal pocket formation that lead to tooth loss if untreated. The proteomic profile and related molecular conditions of pocket tissue in periodontally-affected patients are not reported in literature. To characterize the proteomic profile of periodontally-affected patients, their interproximal periodontal pocket tissue was compared with that of periodontally-healthy patients. Pocket-associated and healthy tissue samples, harvested during surgical therapy, were treated to extract the protein content. Tissues were always collected at sites where no periodontal-pathogenic bacteria were detectable. Proteins were separated using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and identified by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry. After identification, four proteins were selected for subsequent Western Blot quantitation both in pathological and healty tissues. Results: A significant unbalance in protein expression between healthy and pathological sites was recorded. Thirty-two protein spots were overall identified, and four proteins (S100A9, HSPB1, LEG7 and 14-3-3) were selected for Western blot analysis of both periodontally-affected and healthy patients. The four selected proteins resulted over-expressed in periodontal pocket tissue when compared with the corresponding tissue of periodontally-healthy patients. The results of Western blot analysis are congruent with the defensive and the regenerative reaction of injured periodontal tissues. Conclusions: The proteomic analysis was performed for the first time directly on periodontal pocket tissue. The proteomic network highlighted in this study enhances the understanding of periodontal disease pathogenesis necessary for specific therapeutic strategies setting.
This study investigates the properties of globular tiger nut proteins by determining the average molecular mass, protein fractions, denaturation temperature and the isoelectric point. Tiger nut proteins (TNP) prepared by aqueous extraction had a purity of 83.5 % w/w on dry mass. Fractionation of TNP revealed that glutelin was the constituent with the highest concentration (>47.5 % w/w), followed by albumin (31.8 %), globulin (4.7 %) and prolamin (3.8 %). A residual protein fraction of 12.2 % appeared as electrophoretically similar to glutelin. TNP had an apparent molecular mass (m<sup>m</sup>) of 5.3–88 kDa. Both albumin and globulin fractions had m<sup>m</sup> of 5.3–73 kDa, whilst prolamin and glutamine fractions were 5.3–46.2 and 5.3–30 kDa, respectively. TNP had an onset temperature (T<inf>o</inf>), denaturation temperature (T<inf>d</inf>) and enthalpy of transition (∆H) of 54.40, 69.61 °C and 5.43 J/g, respectively. In decreasing order of T<inf>o</inf> and T<inf>d</inf> among the protein fractions were prolamin, albumin, globulin and glutelin. Albumin and glutelin showed the highest and lowest ∆H, respectively. Finally, the isoelectric point of TNP was 4.90. Fundamentally, the properties of TNP show that they might be useful for the techno-functional application in tiger nut-based food systems.
Evidence suggests that phytochemicals can safely modulate cancer cell biology and induce apoptosis. Here, we investigated the anti-cancer activity of morin, a flavone originally isolated from members of the Moraceae family in human leukemic cells, focusing on apoptosis. An anti-cancer effect of morin was screened with several human leukemic cell lines. U937 cells were most sensitive to morin, where it induced caspase-dependent apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. It also induced loss of MMP (ΔΨm) along with cytochrome c release, down-regulated Bcl-2 protein, and up-regulated BAX proteins. The apoptotic activity of morin was significantly attenuated by Bcl-2 augmentation. In conclusion, morin induced caspase-dependent apoptosis through an intrinsic pathway by upregulating BAD proteins. In addition, Bcl-2 protein expression is also important in morin-induced apoptosis of U937 cells. This study provides evidence that morin might have anticancer properties in human leukemic cells.
The DJ-1 superfamily is a group of proteins that shares a similarity with the human DJ-1, known to be associated with Parkinson disease. Novel glyoxalase activity, converting a-oxoaldehydes to carboxylic acids, has been reported for DJ-1 homologs in humans, worms, plants and bacteria. The four Escherichia coli genes, hchA, yajL, yhbO and elbB, have been known to share sequence similarities and catalytic residues with other DJ-1 superfamily members. We investigated here whether they exhibit similar glyoxalase activity, as previously shown for HchA protein. Purified YajL, YhbO and ElbB exhibited glyoxalase activity with different substrate specificities, optimal pHs and metal effects. Overexpressions of the homologs enhance cellular protection from exogenously added glyoxals and reduce the glyoxal-dependent increase in intracellular advanced glycation end products. Based on their expression, primarily during the stationary phase, we speculate that their roles in cells as glyoxalases are manifested during the stationary phase.
To evaluate the serum levels of adipocyte fatty acid-binding protein (A-FABP) and high-sensitivity C reactive protein (hs-CRP) in patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS), and correlations among A-FABP, hs-CRP, and AIS, 108 patients with AIS and 86 healthy controls were examined. The levels of hs-CRP and A-FABP were detected by ELISAs. The stroke severity was determined using the modified Rankin scale (mRS). Patients with AIS were divided into those with mild (mRS ≤ 3) and severe disease (mRS > 3). Regression analysis was performed to test association between hs-CRP and A-FABP. Serum levels of hs-CRP and A-FABP were significantly higher in patients with AIS compared with healthy controls. Furthermore, more severe AIS was associated with higher levels of these markers. Regression analysis demonstrated a weak but significant association between A-FABP and hs-CRP. A-FABP and hs-CRP are associated with AIS, and may be involved in the pathogenesis of AIS.
The Notch signaling pathway plays a significant role in embryonic cell fate determination and adult tissue homeostasis. Various studies have demonstrated the deep involvement of Notch signaling in the development of the pancreas and the lateral inhibition of Notch signaling in pancreatic progenitor differentiation and maintenance. The targeted inactivation of the Notch pathway components promotes premature differentiation of the endocrine pancreas. However, there is still the contrary opinion that Notch signaling specifies the endocrine lineage. Here, we review the current knowledge of the Notch signaling pathway in pancreatic development and its crosstalk with the Wingless and INT-1 (Wnt) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) pathways.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
The stability of cured meat products is increased by the protection of its proteins from oxidation by sodium nitrite (NaNO2) during processing. This study investigated the effects of NaNO2 (0, 50, 100, 200, and 400 mg/kg) on the physiochemical and structural characteristics of myofibrillar protein (MP) in raw and cooked ham. The NaNO2 showed a dose-dependent antioxidant effect, by inhibiting carbonyl formation, dityrosine formation, and denaturation of MP, and a nitrosative effect, through the formation of 3-Nitrotyrosine (3-NT). The 3-NT content within MP of raw ham had distinct negative correlations with sulfhydryl content and surface hydrophobicity. The 3-NT content within MP of cooked ham had significantly negative correlations with carbonyl, sulfhydryl content and turbidity and had significantly positive correlations with disulfide content. These results indicated that 3-NT may be a potential marker for protein oxidation in raw and cooked cured meat products.
CRMP family proteins (CRMPs) are widely expressed in the developing neurons, mediating a variety of fundamental functions such as growth cone guidance, neuronal polarity and axon elongation. However, whether all the CRMP proteins interact with cytoskeleton remains unknown. In this study, we found that in cultured hippocampal neurons, CRMPs mainly colocalized with tubulin and actin network in neurites. In growth cones, CRMPs colocalized with tubulinmainly in the central (C-) domain and transition zone (T-zone), less in the peripheral (P-) domain and colocalized with actin in all the C-domain, T-zone and P-domain. The correlation efficiency of CRMPs between actin was significantly higher than that between tubulin, especially in growth cones. We successfully constructed GST-CRMPs plasmids, expressed and purified the GST-CRMP proteins. By GST-pulldown assay, all the CRMP family proteins were found to beinteracted with cytoskeleton proteins. Taken together, we revealed that CRMPs were colocalized with cytoskeleton in hippocampal neurons, especially in growth cones. CRMPs can interact with both tubulin and actin, thus mediating neuronal development.
KGaA, Weinheim. Anticancer drug Gefitinib encapsulated within human heavy chain apoferritin by diffusion allows pH-controlled sustained release of cargo. The combination of increased cellular uptake, and potent and enhanced antitumor activity against the HER2 overexpressing SKBR3 cell line compared to Gefitinib alone, makes it a promising carrier for delivery of drugs to tumor sites.
Opalescence indicates physical instability of a formulation because of the presence of aggregates or liquid-liquid phase separation in solution and has been reported for monoclonal antibody (mAb) formulations. Increased solution opalescence can be attributed to attractive protein-protein interactions (PPIs). Techniques including light scattering, AUC, or membrane osmometry are routinely employed to measure PPIs in dilute solutions, whereas opalescence is seen at relatively higher concentrations, where both long- and short-range forces contribute to overall PPIs. The mAb molecule studied here shows a unique property of high opalescence because of liquid-liquid phase separation. In this study, opalescence measurements are correlated to PPIs measured in diluted and concentrated solutions using light scattering (kD) and high-frequency rheology (G′), respectively. Charges on the molecules were calculated using zeta potential measurements. Results indicate that high opalescence and phase separation are a result of the attractive interactions in solution; however, the presence of attractive interactions do not always imply phase separation. Temperature dependence of opalescence suggests that thermodynamic contribution to opalescence is significant and Tcloud can be utilized as a potential tool to assess attractive interactions in solution.
Background: Signaling pathways play important roles in the life processes of cell growth, cell apoptosis and organism development. At present the signal transduction networks are far from complete. As an effective complement to experimental methods, computational modeling is suited to rapidly reconstruct the signaling pathways at low cost. To our knowledge, the existing computational methods seldom simultaneously exploit more than three signaling pathways into one predictive model for the discovery of novel signaling components and the cross-talk modeling between signaling pathways. Results: In this work, we propose a multi-label multi-instance transfer learning method to simultaneously reconstruct 27 human signaling pathways and model their cross-talks. Computational results show that the proposed method demonstrates satisfactory multi-label learning performance and rational proteome-wide predictions. Some predicted signaling components or pathway targeted proteins have been validated by recent literature. The predicted signaling components are further linked to pathways using the experimentally derived PPIs (protein-protein interactions) to reconstruct the human signaling pathways. Thus the map of the cross-talks via common signaling components and common signaling PPIs is conveniently inferred to provide valuable insights into the regulatory and cooperative relationships between signaling pathways. Lastly, gene ontology enrichment analysis is conducted to gain statistical knowledge about the reconstructed human signaling pathways. Conclusions: Multi-label learning framework has been demonstrated effective in this work to model the phenomena that a signaling protein belongs to more than one signaling pathway. As results, novel signaling components and pathways targeted proteins are predicted to simultaneously reconstruct multiple human signaling pathways and the static map of their cross-talks for further biomedical research.
Background: Lactococcus lactis has been safely consumed in fermented foods for millennia. This Gram-positive bacterium has now become of industrial importance as an expression host for the overproduction of lipopolysaccharide-free recombinant proteins used as food ingredients, therapeutic proteins and biotechnological enzymes. Results: This paper reports an agmatine-controlled expression (ACE) system for L. lactis, comprising the lactococcal agmatine-sensor/transcriptional activator AguR and its target promoter P aguB . The usefulness and efficiency of this system was checked via the reporter gene gfp and by producing PEP (Myxococcus xanthus prolyl-endopeptidase), an enzyme of biomedical interest able to degrade the immunotoxic peptides produced during the gastrointestinal breakdown of gluten. Conclusion: The ACE system developed in this work was suitable for the efficient expression of the functional recombinant proteins GFP and PEP. The expression system was tightly regulated by the agmatine concentration and allowed high protein production without leakiness.
The engineered bacterial nanocompartment AaLS-13 is a promising artificial encapsulation system that exploits electrostatic interactions for cargo loading. In order to study its ability to take up and retain guests, a pair of fluorescent proteins was developed which allows spectroscopic determination of the extent of encapsulation by Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET). The encapsulation process is generally complete within a second, suggesting low energetic barriers for proteins to cross the capsid shell. Formation of intermediate aggregates upon mixing host and guest in vitro complicates capsid loading at low ionic strength, but can be sidestepped by increasing salt concentrations or diluting the components. Encapsulation of guests is completely reversible, and the position of the equilibrium is easily tuned by varying the ionic strength. These results, which challenge the notion that AaLS-13 is a continuous rigid shell, provide valuable information about cargo loading that will guide ongoing efforts to engineer functional host-guest complexes. Moreover, it should be possible to adapt the protein FRET pair described in this report to characterize functional capsid-cargo complexes generated by other encapsulation systems.
Purpose: Glaucoma is a disease with high heritability in which the degradation of retinal ganglion cells occurs via apoptosis. Therefore, we investigated the role of four functional apoptosis-related gene variants (Akt1 rs1130233, Bax rs4645878, Fas rs223476, and FasL rs763110) in patients with primary open angle glaucoma. Methods: 334 patients with primary open angle glaucoma and 334 controls were recruited for this case–control study. The main outcome measures were genotype distribution and allelic frequencies determined with PCR. Results: After adjustment for multiple testing, no significant difference in either the genotype distribution or the allelic frequencies of any investigated gene variant was found. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that the investigated gene polymorphisms are unlikely to be major risk factors for primary open angle glaucoma in Caucasian patients.
Protein drug products play an important role in the treatment of severe diseases. However, due to the instability of these complex molecules, protein aggregates can form which can compromise drug safety and efficacy including immunogenic reactions. In-line filtration during the administration of these drugs can serve as a final safeguarding step to protect patients from risks associated with proteinaceous particles. A unique analysis of more than 300 marketed protein drug products revealed that already around 16% of all these products are filtered during preparation or administration. Further, the research revealed that no standardized filtration practice exists. Broad variances regarding filter membrane or pore size are found and sometimes no specifications are mentioned at all. The benefits as well as possible negative impacts of filtration like filter shedding, extractables or drug adsorption are critically assessed. Several proposals to improve the current filtration practice and to expand the number of in-line filtered protein drug products are made. The suggestions include the demand for the specific usage of one filter membrane type, the establishment of a filtration routine for unfiltered protein drugs and a statistical analysis between filtered and non-filtered products with similar formulations to identify possible differences in the immunogenicity rate.
During pregnancy, the ETS transcription factor ELF5 establishes the milk-secreting alveolar cell lineage by driving a cell fate decision of the mammary luminal progenitor cell. In breast cancer, ELF5 is a key transcriptional determinant of tumor subtype and has been implicated in the development of insensitivity to anti-estrogen therapy. In the mouse mammary tumor virus-Polyoma Middle T (MMTV-PyMT) model of luminal breast cancer, induction of ELF5 levels increased leukocyte infiltration, angiogenesis, and blood vessel permeability in primary tumors and greatly increased the size and number of lung metastasis. Myeloid-derived suppressor cells, a group of immature neutrophils recently identified as mediators of vasculogenesis and metastasis, were recruited to the tumor in response to ELF5. Depletion of these cells using specific Ly6G antibodies prevented ELF5 from driving vasculogenesis and metastasis. Expression signatures in luminal A breast cancers indicated that increased myeloid cell invasion and inflammation were correlated with ELF5 expression, and increased ELF5 immunohistochemical staining predicted much shorter metastasis–free and overall survival of luminal A patients, defining a group who experienced unexpectedly early disease progression. Thus, in the MMTV-PyMT mouse mammary model, increased ELF5 levels drive metastasis by co-opting the innate immune system. As ELF5 has been previously implicated in the development of antiestrogen resistance, this finding implicates ELF5 as a defining factor in the acquisition of the key aspects of the lethal phenotype in luminal A breast cancer.
Background: We have previously shown that palmitoylation is essential for NRAS leukemogenesis, suggesting that targeting RAS palmitoylation may be an effective therapy for NRAS-related cancers. For KRAS-driven cancer, although much research has been focused on the KRAS4B splice variant, which does not undergo palmitoylation, KRAS4A has recently been shown to play an essential role in the development of carcinogen-induced lung cancer in mice and to be widely expressed in human cancers. However, the role of palmitoylation in KRAS4A tumorigenesis is not clear. Methods: The expression of KRAS4A in KRAS-mutated leukemia cell lines and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells were checked using western blotting and reverse transcriptions-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) analysis, respectively. The leukemogenic potentials of oncogenic KRAS4A and its palmitoylation-defective mutants were examined by a mouse bone marrow transduction and transplantation model and the in vitro transformation assays. The activation of the RAS downstream signaling pathways and the membrane localizations of the KRAS4A and its mutants were analyzed via western blot analysis and confocal microscopy, respectively. Results: We show here that KRAS4A is expressed in human leukemia cell lines and in AML cells harboring KRAS mutations and that mutation at the palmitoylation site of oncogenic KRAS4A significantly abrogates its leukemogenic potential. However, unlike NRAS, palmitoylation-defective KRAS4A still induces leukemia in mice, albeit with a much longer latency. Using NRAS/KRAS4A chimeric constructs, we found that the KIKK motif of KRAS4A contributes to the transforming activity of KRAS4A. Mutations at both palmitoylation site and the KIKK motif abolish the ability of oncogenic KRAS4A to induce leukemia in mice. Conclusions: Our studies suggest that therapies targeting RAS palmitoylation may also be effective in treating KRAS4A associated malignancies and that interfering the KIKK membrane-targeting motif would enhance the therapeutic effectiveness.
Background: Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are cation channels which were activated by extracellular acidosis and involved in various physiological and pathological processes in the nervous system. Inflammasome is a key component of the innate immune response in host against harmful and irritable stimuli. As the first discovered molecular platform, NLRP1 (nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor protein 1) inflammasome is expressed in neurons and implicated in many nervous system diseases such as brain injury, nociception and epilepsy. However, little is known about the effect of ASICs on NLRP1 inflammasome activation under acidosis. Methods: The expression of inflammasome complex protein (NLRP1, ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase-activating recruitment domain) and caspase-1), inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and IL-18), and apoptosis-related protein (Bax, Bcl-2, and activated caspase-3) was detected by Western blot. Large-conductance Ca2+ and voltage-activated K+ (BK) channel currents were recorded by whole-cell patch-clamp technology. Measurement of [K+] i was performed by fluorescent ion imaging system. Co-expression of ASICs and BK channels was determined by dual immunofluorescence. Cell viability was assessed by MTT and LDH kit. Results: ASICs and BK channels were co-expressed in primary cultured cortical neurons. Extracellular acidosis increased the expression of NLRP1, ASC, caspase-1, IL-1β, and IL-18. Further mechanistic studies revealed that acidosis-induced ASIC1a activation results in the increase of BK channel currents, with the subsequent K+ efflux and a low concentration of intracellular K+, which activated NLRP1 inflammasome. Furthermore, these effects of acidosis could be blocked by specific ASIC1a inhibitor PcTX1 and BK channel inhibitor IbTX. The data also demonstrated neutralization of NLRP1-protected cortical neurons against injury induced by extracellular acidosis. Conclusions: Our data showed that NLRP1 inflammasome could be activated by extracellular acidosis though ASIC-BK channel K+ signal pathway and was involved in extracellular acidosis-induced cortical neuronal injury.
KGaA, Weinheim.A bi-functional microarray for in situ peptide screening is presented herein, from which an affinity peptide towards EpCAM is screened out for tumor cell capture. Copyright
The organic cation transporters OCT and OCTN have been reported to play a significant role in the cellular uptake of substrates within in vitro lung cells. However, no studies to date have investigated the effect of these transporters upon transepithelial absorption of substrates into the pulmonary circulation. We investigated the contribution of OCT and OCTN transporters to total pulmonary absorption of l-carnitine and the anti-muscarinic drug, ipratropium, across an intact isolated perfused rat lung (IPRL). The results obtained from the IPRL were contrasted with active transport in vitro using three human pulmonary cell lines and primary rat alveolar epithelial cells. Ex-vivo studies showed that OCT/OCTN transporters do not play a role in the overall pulmonary absorption of l-carnitine or ipratropium, as evidenced by the effect of chemical inhibition of these transporters upon pulmonary absorption. In contrast, in vitro studies showed that OCT/OCTN transporters play a significant role in cellular accumulation of substrates with preferential uptake of ipratropium by OCTs, and of l-carnitine uptake by OCTNs. The results show that in vitro uptake studies cannot be predictive of airway to blood absorption in vivo. Nevertheless, localised submucosal pulmonary concentrations of inhaled drugs and their pulmonary pharmacodynamic profiles may be influenced by OCT/OCTN transport activity.
Natural antibodies are used widely for important applications such as biomedical analysis, cancer therapy, and directed drug delivery, but they are expensive and may have limited stability. This study describes synthesis of antibody-like binding sites by molecular imprinting on silica nanoparticles (SiNP) using a combination of four organosilane monomers with amino acid-like side chains providing hydrophobic, hydrophilic, and H-bonding interactions with target proteins. This approach provided artificial antibody (AA) nanoparticles with good selectivity and specificity to binding domains on target proteins in a relatively low-cost synthesis. The AAs were made by polymer grafting onto SiNPs for human serum albumin (HSA) and glucose oxidase (GOx). Binding affinity, selectivity, and specificity was compared to several other proteins using adsorption isotherms and surface plasmon resonance (SPR). The Langmuir-Freundlich adsorption model was used to obtain apparent binding constants (KLF) from binding isotherms of HSA (6.7 × 104) and GOx (4.7 × 104) to their respective AAs. These values were 4-300 fold larger compared to a series of nontemplate proteins. SPR binding studies of AAs with proteins attached to a gold surface confirmed good specificity and revealed faster binding for the target proteins compared to nontarget proteins. Target proteins retained their secondary structures upon binding. Binding capacity of AAHSA for HSA was 5.9 mg HSA/g compared to 1.4 mg/g for previously report imprinted silica beads imprinted with poly(aminophenyl)boronic acid. Also, 90% recovery for HSA spiked into 2% calf serum was found for AAHSA.
Targeted therapies against EGFR, vascular endothelial growth factor, and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor have expanded treatment options for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). Unfortunately, biomarkers to identify patients that are most likely to derive benefit from targeted therapies in this disease are still needed. Indeed, only RAS mutations have been identified as predictive of lack of benefit from monoclonal antibodies against EGFR in patients with mCRC. Panitumumab is a fully humanized monoclonal antibody against EGFR. In this study, we review data to support the use of panitumumab in combination with a chemotherapy backbone, in the first line setting in patients with RAS wild-type mCRC. Ongoing efforts are aimed at identifying smaller subsets of patients within the RAS wild-type group that will derive the largest benefit from anti-EGFR therapy. In the meantime, treatment with anti-EGFR therapy should be reserved for patients with RAS wild-type mCRC.
Membrane deformation inside living cells is crucial for the proper shaping of various intracellular organelles and is necessary during the fission/fusion processes that allow membrane recycling and transport (e.g. endocytosis). Proteins that induce membrane curvature play a key role in such processes, mostly by adsorbing to the membrane and forming a scaffold that deforms the membrane according to the curvature of the proteins. In this paper we explore the possibility of membrane tube destabilization through a pearling mechanism enabled by the combined effects of the adsorbed curved proteins and the actin polymerization that they recruit. The pearling instability can serve as the initiation for fission of the tube into vesicles. We find that adsorbed curved proteins are more likely to stabilize the tubes, while the actin polymerization can provide the additional constrictive force needed for the robust instability. We discuss the relevance of the theoretical results to in vivo and in vitro experiments.
Thiopeptides are potent antibiotics that inhibit protein synthesis. They are made by a remarkable post-translational modification process that transforms a linear peptide into a polycyclic structure. We present here the in vitro biosynthesis of the core scaffold of thiomuracin catalyzed by six proteins. We show that cyclodehydration precedes dehydration, and that dehydration is catalyzed by two proteins in a tRNAGlu-dependent manner. The enzyme that generates the pyridine core from two dehydroalanines ejects the leader peptide as a C-terminal carboxamide. Mutagenesis studies of the enzyme TbtD identified important residues for a formal [4+2] cycloaddition process. The core structure of thiomuracin exhibits similar antimicrobial activity to other known congeners, illustrating that in vitro biosynthesis is a viable route to potent antibiotics that can be explored for the rapid and renewable generation of analogues.
Background: Bovine leukemia virus (BLV) is the causative agent of enzootic bovine leukosis, the most common neoplastic disease of cattle. BLV is closely related to human T cell leukemia virus. B cell epitopes are important for the use of antibodies as therapeutic agents, the epitope-driven vaccine design, and immunological assays. A common B cell epitope for BLV has not yet been found due to individual differences in disease susceptibility. Results: We used a peptide microarray with 156 synthetic 15-mer peptides covering the envelope glycoprotein gp51 and the Gag proteins p15, p24, and p12 to map B cell epitope and one B cell epitope, gp51p16, was recognized by all four cattle experimentally infected with BLV. A newly developed high-throughput peptide ELISA system revealed 590 (91.2 %) of 647 cattle naturally infected with BLV, carrying 25 different bovine leukocyte antigen class II DRB3 (BoLA-DRB3) alleles, responded to a 20-mer gp51p16-C peptide containing a C-terminal cysteine and gp51p16. Alanine mutation and comparison of the sequences at 17 amino acid positions within gp51p16-C revealed that R7, R9, F10, V16, and Y18 were the common binding sites to BLV antibodies, and two of these sites were found to be highly conserved. Transient expression in the cells of five infectious molecular clones of BLV with a single alanine mutation at five common antibody binding sites had no effect syncytia formation of the gp51 protein. In addition, the mutant proteins, R7A and R9A had no effect on the expression of gp51 protein; the gp51 protein expressions of F10A, V16A and Y18A were lower than that of the wild type protein. Conclusions: This is the first report to identify a common B cell epitope in BLV by comprehensive screening of BLV-infected cattle with varied genetic backgrounds in BoLA-DRB3. Our results have important implications for disease control and diagnosis.
Chamaechromone and neochamaejasmin B (NCB) are the most abundant components in the dried roots of the toxic perennial herb Stellera chamaejasme L. and have pharmacological activities. The objective of this study was to investigate the transport mechanism of these two components in vivo and in vitro. The transport and cellular accumulation studies in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells overexpressing human multidrug resistance protein 2 (MRP2) or P-gp and LLC-PK1 cells overexpressing human breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) were performed. The results showed that chamaechromone was a good substrate of MRP2 and BCRP but not a substrate of P-gp. NCB was found to be a MRP2 inhibitor in transfected cells and significantly enhanced the cellular accumulation of chamaechromone in MDCK cells overexpressing MRP2. Similar results were obtained in LLC-PK1-BCRP cells. In addition, the influence of NCB on the bioavailability of chamaechromone following their co-administration was also determined in rats. The results showed that the area under the plasma concentration-time curve and maximal plasma concentration of chamaechromone in rats were increased by 48.9% and 81.9%, respectively. The mechanism of improving the oral bioavailability of chamaechromone was attributable to the inhibition of the BCRP and MRP2-mediated efflux of chamaechromone by NCB.
Introduction: The viral 2A sequence has become an attractive alternative to the traditional internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) for simultaneous over-expression of two genes and in combination with recombinant adeno-associated viruses (rAAV) has been used to manipulate gene expression in vitro. New method: To develop a rAAV construct in combination with the viral 2A sequence to allow long-term over-expression of the vgf gene and fluorescent marker gene for tracking of the transfected neurones in vivo. Results: Transient transfection of the AAV plasmid containing the vgf gene, viral 2A sequence and eGFP into SH-SY5Y cells resulted in eGFP fluorescence comparable to a commercially available reporter construct. This increase in fluorescent cells was accompanied by an increase in VGF mRNA expression. Infusion of the rAAV vector containing the vgf gene, viral 2A sequence and eGFP resulted in eGFP fluorescence in the hypothalamus of both mice and Siberian hamsters, 32 weeks post infusion. In situ hybridisation confirmed that the location of VGF mRNA expression in the hypothalamus corresponded to the eGFP pattern of fluorescence. Comparison with old method: The viral 2A sequence is much smaller than the traditional IRES and therefore allowed over-expression of the vgf gene with fluorescent tracking without compromising viral capacity. Conclusion: The use of the viral 2A sequence in the AAV plasmid allowed the simultaneous expression of both genes in vitro. When used in combination with rAAV it resulted in long-term over-expression of both genes at equivalent locations in the hypothalamus of both Siberian hamsters and mice, without any adverse effects.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type-1 (HTLV-1) is a tumorigenic retrovirus responsible for development of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL). This disease manifests after a long clinical latency period of up to 2–3 decades. Two viral gene products, Tax and HBZ, have transforming properties and play a role in the pathogenic process. Genetic and epigenetic cellular changes also occur in HTLV-1-infected cells, which contribute to transformation and disease development. However, the role of cellular factors in transformation is not completely understood. Herein, we examined the role of protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) on HTLV-1-mediated cellular transformation and viral gene expression. We found PRMT5 expression was upregulated during HTLV-1-mediated T-cell transformation, as well as in established lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma cell lines and ATLL patient PBMCs. shRNA-mediated reduction in PRMT5 protein levels or its inhibition by a small molecule inhibitor (PRMT5i) in HTLV-1-infected lymphocytes resulted in increased viral gene expression and decreased cellular proliferation. PRMT5i also had selective toxicity in HTLV-1-transformed T-cells. Finally, we demonstrated that PRMT5 and the HTLV-1 p30 protein had an additive inhibitory effect on HTLV-1 gene expression. Our study provides evidence for PRMT5 as a host cell factor important in HTLV-1-mediated T-cell transformation, and a potential target for ATLL treatment.
ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters make up a superfamily of transmembrane proteins that play a critical role in the development of drug resistance. This phenomenon is especially important in oncology, where superfamily member ABCG2 (also called BCRP - breast cancer resistance protein) is known to interact with dozens of anti-cancer agents that are ABCG2 substrates. In addition to the well-studied and well-reviewed list of cytotoxic and targeted agents that are substrates for the ABCG2 transporter, a growing body of work links ABCG2 to multiple photodynamic therapy (PDT) agents, and there is a limited body of evidence suggesting that ABCG2 may also play a role in resistance to radiation therapy. In addition, the focus of ABC transporter research in regards to therapeutic development has begun to shift in the past few years. The shift has been away from using pump inhibitors for reversing resistance, toward the development of therapeutic agents that are poor substrates for these efflux pump proteins. This approach may result in the development of drug regimens that circumvent ABC transporter-mediated resistance entirely. Here, it is our intention to review: 1) recent discoveries that further characterize the role of ABCG2 in oncology, and 2) advances in reversing and circumventing ABC transporter-mediated resistance to anti-cancer therapies.
The nanostructures formed by inorganic nanoparticles together with organic molecules especially biomolecules have attracted increasing attention from both industries and researching fields due to their unique hybrid properties. In this paper, we systemically studied the interactions between amphiphilic polymer coated silver nanoparticles and bovine serum albumins by employing the fluorescence quenching approach in combination with the Stern-Volmer and Hill equations. The binding affinity was determined to 1.30 × 107 M-1 and the interaction was spontaneously driven by mainly the van der Waals force and hydrogen-bond mediated interactions, and negatively cooperative from the point of view of thermodynamics. With the non-uniform coating of amphiphilic polymer, the silver nanoparticles can form protein coronas which can become discrete protein-nanoparticle conjugates when controlling their molar ratios of mixing. The protein's conformational changes upon binding nanoparticles was also studied by using the three-dimensional fluorescence spectroscopy.
Pasteurised processed cheese spreads of varying chemical composition were developed, using a Myzithra-type cheese, which is a high-moisture and low-fat fresh whey cheese. Nine novel, spreadable processed whey cheese (PWC) samples were prepared comprising only of whey proteins, while guar gum was added as a stabiliser. All samples had a pH value of 5.20, which was obtained with the addition of a starter culture. The effect of chemical composition on the physico-chemical and rheological properties of PWC samples was studied. Due to their texture, two instrumental techniques, lubricated squeezing flow viscometry and texture profile analysis, were considered appropriate for the evaluation of samples. The decrease in protein content or the increase in fat content produced less viscous, consistent and solid samples, which were more spreadable. Protein content was shown to be a better predictor of the texture of PWC samples. Sensory assessments revealed that the majority of PWC samples had good spreadability and flavour and were rated as highly acceptable. Results of sensory and instrumental analyses were highly positively correlated. Results have shown that the choice of the desired formulation could be manipulated for the production of processed whey cheese spreads with specific properties.
Raf kinase inhibitor protein (RKIP), an inhibitor of Raf-mediated activation of mitogen-activated protein/ extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase (MEK), has been identified as a metastasis suppressor gene. However, the role of RKIP in human choriocarcinoma remains undetermined. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the expression of RKIP in human choriocarcinoma cells and evaluated the effects ofRKIP on choriocarcinoma cell proliferation and invasion. Our results indicated that RKIP was lowly expressed in human choriocarcinoma cells. Overexpression of RKIP inhibits choriocarcinoma cell proliferation, migration and invasion, promotes the apoptosis of choriocarcinoma cells. Furthermore, overexpression of RKIP significantly inhibited the expression of MEK and ERK phosphorylation in choriocarcinoma cells. Taken together, these data suggest that RKIP suppresses cell proliferation and invasion in choriocarcinoma cells through inhibiting the MAPK signaling pathway, implying that RKIP may serve as a potential molecular target for the treatment of human choriocarcinoma.
Background: Giant cell tumor of bone (GCTB) is a relatively rare tumor of bone, characterized by numerous multinucleated cells, severe osteolysis, and local recurrence. Purpose: To explore the role of S-phase kinaseinteracting protein 2 (Skp2), cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27, and the transcription factor E2F-1 expression in the development of GCTB, and the relationship of expression of these proteins with tumor recurrence. Methods: Forty-four patients with GCTB were selected and demographic and clinical data were collected. The levels of Skp2, p27, and E2F-1 protein expression were immunohistochemically assessed in surgical specimens. Results: Skp2, p27, and E2F-1 proteins were detected in the nuclei of mononuclear stromal cells. Positive Skp2 expression was observed in 66% (29/44) of GCTB patient samples, and positive p27 expression was found in 39% (17/44) of samples. Within almost all GCTB patients, there was an inverse correlation between Skp2- and p27-positive tumor cells. Positive expression of E2F-1 was present in 28 of 44 (64%) patients. In addition, expression of skp2 and p27, infiltration of soft tissues, and surgical operation were significantly associated with recurrence in patients with GCTB. Conclusion: The immunohistochemical assessment of Skp2, p27 and E2F-1 may be useful in the diagnosis of GCTB and prediction of its prognosis.
Corynebacterium glutamicum, typically used as industrial workhorse for amino acid production, is a moderately salt-alkali-tolerant microorganism with optimal growth at pH 7-9. However, little is known about the mechanisms of salt-alkali tolerance in C. glutamicum. Here, the catalytic capacity of three putative Na+/H+ antiporters from C. glutamicum (designated as Cg-Mrp1, Cg-Mrp2 and Cg-NhaP) were characterized in an antiporter-deficient Escherichia coli KNabc strain. Only Cg-Mrp1 was able to effectively complement the Na+-sensitive of E. coli KNabc. Cg-Mrp1 exhibited obvious Na+(Li+)/H+ antiport activities with low apparent Km values of 1.08mM and 1.41mM for Na+ and Li+, respectively. The Na+/H+ antiport activity of Cg-Mrp1 was optimal in the alkaline pH range. All three antiporters showed detectable K+/H+ antiport activitiy. Cg-NhaP also exhibited Na+(Li+,Rb+)/H+ antiport activities but at lower levels of activity. Interestingly, overexpression of Cg-Mrp2 exhibited clear Na+(K+)/H+ antiport activities. These results suggest that C. glutamicum Na+(K+)/H+ antiporters may have overlapping roles in coping with salt-alkali and perhaps high-osmolarity stress.
Background: The carbohydrate portions of salivary glycoproteins play important roles, including mediating bacterial and leukocyte adhesion. Salivary glycosylation is complex. Many of its glycoproteins present ABO and Lewis blood group determinants. An individual's genetic complement and secretor status govern the expression of blood group antigens. We queried the extent to which salivary glycosylation varies according to blood group and secretor status. First, we screened submandibular/sublingual and parotid salivas collected as ductal secretions for reactivity with a panel of 16 lectins. We selected three lectins that reacted with the largest number of glycoproteins and one that recognized uncommon lactosamine-containing structures. Ductal salivas representing a secretor with complex blood group expression and a nonsecretor with a simple pattern were separated by SDS-PAGE. Gel slices were trypsin digested and the glycopeptides were individually separated on each of the four lectins. The bound fractions were de-N-glycosylated. LC-MS/MS identified the original glycosylation sites, the peptide sequences, and the parent proteins. Results: The results revealed novel salivary N-glycosites and glycoproteins not previously reported. As compared to the secretor, nonsecretor saliva had higher levels of N-glycosylation albeit with simpler structures. Conclusions: Together, the results suggested a molecular basis for inter-individual variations in salivary protein glycosylation with functional implications for oral health.
Genomic sequencing analysis and previous studies have shown that there are eight genes in Streptomyces coelicolor A3(2) encoding putative cellulases. One of these genes, sco6548, was cloned into the Streptomyces/Escherichia coli shuttle vector pUWL201PW. The recombinant protein was successfully overexpressed in S. lividans TK24 under the control of the strong ermE promoter. Sco6548 was 1740 bp in length, and encoded a 579-amino acid-, 60.8-kDa protein with strong hydrolyzing activity toward Avicel and filter paper, yielding cellobiose as the final product. SCO6548 showed optimal activity at 50?C and pH 5. The Km values of SCO6548 toward Avicel and filter paper were 15.38 and 16.1 mg/mL, respectively. The Vmax values toward Avicel and filter paper were 0.432 and 0.084 μM/min, respectively. EDTA did not affect cellulase activity; however, several divalent cations, including Co2+, Cu2+, Ni2+ and Mn2+ (at 10 mM) had severe inhibitory effects on enzyme activity. Our analysis showed that SCO6548 is a cellulose 1,4-ß-cellobiosidase that hydrolyzes cellulose into cellobiose.
Aseptic lossening is a main reason for the revision of total joint arthroplasty. Metal-wear particles induced deregulation of bone resorption or formation has been considered as the major process of aseptic lossening. Osteogenic protein-1 (OP-1) can be used to improve bone formation. However, such effect is not clearly understood after the metal-wear particles injury. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms by which OP-1 regulates the activity of bone formation and anti-inflammatory after injury. Results showed that OP-1 increased cell viability and bone formation ability of impaired osteoblast cells at 72 hours after being injured by cobalt particles. Pathway analyses revealed that both mRNA and protein levels of Smad1 and Smad5 were significantly increased upon the treatment of OP-1 in the cell injury model. Similarly, runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2) was also significantly upregulated in the OP-1 treated cells. Moreover, treatment with OP-1 inhibited the secretion of interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), and IL-18 in cobalt impaired cells. Collectively, these results suggest that OP-1 could inhibit cobalt particles induced cell injury by activating Smad1, Smad5, and Runx2, and such procedure is accompanied by anti-inflammatory reaction.
The purpose of this work was to evaluate the influence of the co-encapsulation of lyoprotectants with insulin into PLGA nanoparticles, on the stability of the protein and nanoparticles upon lyophilization. Different lyoprotectants were used, namely trehalose, glucose, sucrose, fructose and sorbitol at 10% (w/v). Insulin-loaded PLGA nanoparticles with co-encapsulated lyoprotectants achieved a mean particle size of 386-466 nm, and a zeta potential ranging between -34 and -38 mV, dependent on the lyoprotectant used. Formulations had association efficiencies and loading capacities of 85-91% and 10-12%, respectively. The lyophilization process increased the colloidal stability of nanoparticles, and maintained their spherical shape and smooth surface, particularly in presence of lyoprotectants. XRPD revealed that the lyophilizates of nanoparticles with co-encapsulated lyoprotectants were amorphous, whereas formulations with externally added lyoprotectants, except trehalose, showed crystallinity. FTIR assessment showed that co-encapsulating lyoprotectants better preserved insulin structure upon lyophilization with a spectral area overlap of 82-87%, compared to only 72% in lyoprotectant absence. These results were confirmed by circular dichroism spectroscopy. Surprisingly, the simultaneous co-encapsulation and addition of lyoprotectants was detrimental to protein stabilization. The insulin in vitro release studies demonstrated that formulations with co-encapsulated trehalose, glucose, sucrose, fructose and sorbitol achieved 83%, 69%, 70%, 77% and 74%, respectively after 48 h. In contrast, formulations added with those lyoprotectants prior lyophilization showed a lower release rate not higher than 60% after 48 h. This work gives rise to a different promising strategy of co-encapsulating lyoprotectants and therapeutic proteins, to better stabilize protein structure upon lyophilization.
Background: Although metformin, a first-line drug for treating diabetes, may play an important role in inhibition of epithelial ovarian cancer cell growth and cancer stem cells (CSCs), metformin at low dose showed less effect on the proliferation of ovarian cancer cells. In this study, we evaluated the effect of metformin at low dose on ovarian CSCs in order to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying. Methods: The inhibitory effects of metformin at los dose on proliferation and population of ovarian cancer cells including SKOV3 and A2780 were assessed by cell proliferation assay and flow cytometry. Quantitative real-time PCR assay on expression of Bcl-2, Survivin and Bax was performed to determine the effect of metformin at low dose on epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of cancer cells and CSCs. Tumor sphere formation assay was also performed to evaluate the effect of metformin on spheres forming ability of CSCs. The therapeutic efficacy and the anti-CSC effects of metformin at low dose were investigated by using both SKOV3 cells and primary tumor xenografts. In addition, the CSC frequency and EMT in tumor xenograft models were also assessed by flow cytometry and quantitative real-time PCR. Results: Metformin at low dose did not affect the proliferation of ovarian cancer cells. However, it inhibited population of CD44+CD117+ selectively, neither CD133+ nor ALDH+ cells. It suppressed expression of snail2, twist and vimentin significantly in cancer cells and CD44+CD117+ CSCs in vitro. Low dose of metformin reduced survivin expression in CSCs. Low concentrations of metformin inhibited the secondary and the tertiary tumor sphere formation, decreased SKOV3 and primary ovarian tumor xenograft growth, enhanced the anticancer effect of cisplatin, and lowered the proportion of CD44+CD117+ CSCs in the xenograft tissue. Metformin was also associated with a reduction of snail2, twist, and vimentin in CD44+CD117+ ovarian CSCs in vivo. Conclusions: Our results implicate that metformin at low dose inhibits selectively CD44+CD117+ ovarian CSCs through inhibition of EMT and potentiates the effect of cisplatin.
Purpose: In the literature, immunohistochemistry on cross sections is the main technique used to study protein expression in corneal endothelial cells (ECs), even though this method allows visualization of few ECs, without clear subcellular localization, and is subject to the staining artifacts frequently encountered at tissue borders. We previously proposed several protocols, using fixation in 0.5% paraformaldehyde (PFA) or in methanol, allowing immunostaining on flatmounted corneas for proteins of different cell compartments. In the present study, we further refined the technique by systematically assessing the effect of fixative temperature. Last, we used optimized protocols to further demonstrate the considerable advantages of immunostaining on flatmounted intact corneas: detection of rare cells in large fields of thousands of ECs and epithelial cells, and accurate subcellular localization of given proteins. Methods: The staining of four ubiquitous proteins, ZO-1, hnRNP L, actin, and histone H3, with clearly different subcellular localizations, was analyzed in ECs of organ-cultured corneas. Whole intact human corneas were fixed for 30 min in 0.5% paraformaldehyde or pure methanol at four temperatures (4 °C for PFA, −20 °C for methanol, and 23, 37, and 50 °C for both). Experiments were performed in duplicate and repeated on three corneas. Standardized pictures were analyzed independently by two experts. Second, optimized immunostaining protocols were applied to fresh corneas for three applications: identification of rare cells that express KI67 in the endothelium of specimens with Fuch’s endothelial corneal dystrophy (FECD), the precise localization of neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAMs) in normal ECs and of the cytokeratin pair K3/12 and CD44 in normal epithelial cells, and the identification of cells that express S100b in the normal epithelium. Results: Temperature strongly influenced immunostaining quality. There was no ubiquitous protocol, but nevertheless, room temperature may be recommended as first-line temperature during fixation, instead of the conventional −20 °C for methanol and 4 °C for PFA. Further optimization may be required for certain target proteins. Optimized protocols allowed description of two previously unknown findings: the presence of a few proliferating ECs in FECD specimens, suggesting ineffective compensatory mechanisms against premature EC death, and the localization of NCAMs exclusively in the lateral membranes of ECs, showing hexagonal organization at the apical pole and an irregular shape with increasing complexity toward the basal pole. Optimized protocols were also effective for the epithelium, allowing clear localization of cytokeratin 3/12 and CD44 in superficial and basal epithelial cells, respectively. Finally, S100b allowed identification of clusters of epithelial Langerhans cells near the limbus and more centrally. Conclusions: Fixative temperature is a crucial parameter in optimizing immunostaining on flatmounted intact corneas. Whole-tissue overview and precise subcellular staining are significant advantages over conventional immunohistochemistry (IHC) on cross sections. This technique, initially developed for the corneal endothelium, proved equally suitable for the corneal epithelium and could be used for other superficial mono- and multilayered epithelia.
Background and Aims: Slug is an E-cadherin repressor and a suppressor of PUMA (p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis) and it has recently been demonstrated that Slug plays an important role in controlling apoptosis. In this study, we examined whether Slug’s ability to silence expression suppresses the growth of leukemia HL-60 cells and/or sensitizes leukemia HL-60 cells to adriamycin (ADR) through induction of apoptosis. Methods: SLUG siRNA was transfected into the HL-60 and HL-60ADR cell lines (an adriamycin resistant cell line). The stably SLUG siRNA transfected HL-60 and HL-60ADR cells was transiently transfected with PUMA siRNA. The mRNA and protein expression of SLUG and PUMA were determined by Quantitative real-time RT-PCR and Western blot assay. The effects of SLUG siRNA alone or combined with ADR or PUMA siRNA on growth and apoptosis in HL-60 and HL-60ADR cells was detected by MTT, ELISA and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay. Results: The results showed that SLUG was less expressed in the HL-60 cells, and high expressed in the HL- 60ADR cells. Obvious down-regulation of SLUG mRNA and protein levels and up-regulation of PUMA mRNA and protein levels after SLUG siRNA transfection was showed in the HL-60ADR cells. Treatment with ADR induced SLUG mRNA and protein in the HL-60 cells. Significant positive correlation was observed between basal SLUG mRNA and protein and ADR sensitivity. SLUG gene silencing by SLUG siRNA transfection inhibited growth and induced apoptosis, and increased ADR killing of the HL-60 and HL-60ADR cell lines. After the SLUG siRNA transfected HL-60 and HL-60ADR cells was transiently transfected with PUMA siRNA, did not increase ADR killing of the HL-60 and HL-60ADR cell lines. Conclusion: SLUG level positively correlated with sensitivity to ADR. SLUG siRNA could effectively reduce SLUG expression and induce PUMA expression and restore the drug sensitivity of resistant leukemic cells to conventional chemotherapeutic agents.
Precise nodal staging is particularly important to guide the treatments and determine the prognosis for cancer patients. However, it is still challenging to noninvasively and precisely detect in-depth tumor metastasis in lymph nodes (LNs) because of the small size and high potential of obtaining pseudopositive results. Herein, we report the rational design of a T1-T2 dual-modal MRI contrast agent for accurate imaging of tumor metastasis in LNs using gadolinium-embedded iron oxide nanoplates (GdIOP). The GdIOP were modulated with suitable size in vivo through surface functionalization by zwitterionic dopamine sulfonate (ZDS) molecules. The efficient uptake of GdIOP@ZDS nanoparticles through drainage effect because of the presence of large amount of macrophages and dendritic cells generates both T1 and T2 contrasts in LNs. In contrast, the low uptake of protein-corona-free GdIOP@ZDS nanoparticles by melanoma B16 tumor cells promises pseudocontrast imaging of potential tumor metastasis in LNs. The combination of T1 and T2 imaging modalities allows self-confirmed detection of a metastatic tumor with about 1.2 mm in the minimal dimension in LNs, which is close to the detection limit of submilimeter level of MRI scans. This study provides an efficient and noninvasive strategy to detect tumor metastasis in LNs with greatly enhanced diagnostic accuracy.
LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis of Asparagus racemosus roots methanolic extract (AME) showed the presence of flavonoids, saponins and shatavarins. Effectiveness of A. racemosus extract in preventing tert-Butyl hydroperoxide (. t-BHP) induced damage was investigated. Wistar rats treated with 1. mmol/kg body weight (b/wt) t-BHP induced oxidative stress with an increase in serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST). The liver antioxidant enzymes such as SOD, CAT, GPx, GR and GSH content was decreased and lipid peroxidation products and protein carbonyls were increased in t-BHP treated rat liver tissues. Further, we also observed WBC, DNA and liver damage in t-BHP treated rats by single cell gel electrophoresis and histopathology study. However, the rats treated with 200 and 400. mg/kg b.wt A. racemosus, showed a significant reduction in serum ALT and AST to 27. ±. 0.74, 22. ±. 0.51 and 75. ±. 4, 69. ±. 3 units/ml of serum respectively. The increase in antioxidant levels and lipid peroxidation products with t-BHP treatment were also decreased with A. racemosus supplementation. The t-BHP induced increase in hepatic protein carbonyls were significantly reduced to 150% and 139% with 200 and 400. mg/kg b.wt A. racemosus administration respectively. Further AME treatment inhibited t-BHP induced WBC, DNA to 54% and also showed protection against liver tissue damage of rats. Overall the study demonstrates the antioxidant and hepatoprotective effects of A. racemosus which could be used as a food supplement to treat stress associated disorders.
Background: Notch signaling has been conserved throughout evolution and plays a fundamental role in various neural developmental processes and the pathogenesis of several human cancers and genetic disorders. However, how Notch signaling regulates various cellular processes remains unclear. Although Deltex proteins have been identified as cytoplasmic downstream elements of the Notch signaling pathway, few studies have been reported on their physiological role. Results: We isolated zebrafish deltex1 (dtx1) and showed that this gene is primarily transcribed in the developing nervous system, and its spatiotemporal expression pattern suggests a role in neural differentiation. The transcription of dtx1 was suppressed by the direct binding of the Notch downstream transcription factors Her2 and Her8a. Overexpressing the complete coding sequence of Dtx1 was necessary for inducing neuronal and glial differentiation. By contrast, disrupting Dtx1 expression by using a Dtx1 construct without the RING finger domain reduced neuronal and glial differentiation. This effect was phenocopied by the knockdown of endogenous Dtx1 expression by using morpholinos, demonstrating the essential function of the RING finger domain and confirming the knockdown specificity. Cell proliferation and apoptosis were unaltered in Dtx1-overexpressed and -deficient zebrafish embryos. Examination of the expression of her2 and her8a in embryos with altered Dtx1 expression showed that Dxt1-induced neuronal differentiation did not require a regulatory effect on the Notch-Hairy/E(Spl) pathway. However, both Dtx1 and Notch activation induced glial differentiation, and Dtx1 and Notch activation negatively inhibited each other in a reciprocal manner, which achieves a proper balance for the expression of Dtx1 and Notch to facilitate glial differentiation. We further confirmed that the Dtx1-Notch-Hairy/E(Spl) cascade was sufficient to induce neuronal and glial differentiation by concomitant injection of an active form of Notch with dtx1, which rescued the neuronogenic and gliogenic defects caused by the activation of Notch signaling. Conclusions: Our results demonstrated that Dtx1 is regulated by Notch-Hairy/E(Spl) signaling and is a major factor specifically regulating neural differentiation. Thus, our results provide new insights into the mediation of neural development by the Notch signaling pathway.
Self-assembly of a protein is a natural phenomenon; however, the process can be performed under a suitable condition in vitro. Since proteins are nontoxic, biodegradable, and biocompatible in nature, they are used in various industrial applications such as biocatalyst, therapeutic agent, and drug carriers. Moreover, their flexible structural state and specific activity are being used as sensors and immensely attract many new applications. However, the inherent potential of protein self-assembly for various applications is yet to be explored in detail. In this study, spherical self-assembly of bovine α-lactalbumin (nsBLA) was synthesized using an optimized ethanol-mediated desolvation process with an average diameter of approximately 300 nm. The self-assembly was found to be highly stable against thermal, pH, and proteases stress. When nsBLA was administered in various cancer cells, it demonstrated high cytotoxicity in three different cancer cells via reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, whereas it exhibited negligible toxicity in normal human and murine cells. When nsBLA was conjugated with folic acid, it improved the cytotoxicity and perhaps mediated through enhanced cellular uptake in cancer cells through binding with folate receptors. Further, experimental results confirmed that the cancer cell death induced by nsBLA was not caused by apoptosis but a necrotic-like death mechanism. When compared with a well-known protein-based anticancer agent BAMLET (bovine α-lactalbumin made lethal against tumor cell), the self-assembled BLA clearly exhibited higher cytotoxicity to cancer cells than BAMLET. While BAMLET exhibits poor biocompatibility, our nsBLA demonstrated excellent biocompatibility to normal cells. Therefore, in this study, we prepared self-assembled α-lactalbumin that exhibits strong inherent antiproliferative potential in multiple cancer cells which can be used for efficient therapeutic approach in cancer.
Background: Rheumatoid Arthritis is a chronic disease leading to decreased quality of life with a rather variable response rate to Disease Modifying Anti Rheumatic Drugs. Methotrexate (MTX) is the gold standard therapy in Rheumatoid Arthritis. The Multidrug resistance Related Protein and Multi Drug Resistance protein 1, also called P-glycoprotein-170 transporters can alter the intracellular concentration of different drugs. Methotrexate is an MRP1 substrate and thus the functional activity of MRP1 might have a clinical impact on the efficiency of the Methotrexate-therapy in Rheumatoid Arthritis. Methods: We have compared the functional Multidrug Activity Factors (MAF) of the MDR1 and MRP1 transporters of Peripheral Blood Leukocytes of 59 Rheumatoid Arthritis patients with various response rate to MTX-therapy (MTX-responder, MTX-resistant and MTX-intolerant RA-groups) and 47 non-RA controls in six different leukocyte subpopulations (neutrophil leukocytes, monocytes, lymphocytes, CD4+, CD8+ and CD19+ cells). There was a decreased MAF of RA patients compared to non- Rheumatoid Arthritis patients and healthy controls in the leukocyte subpopulations. There was a significant difference between the MAF values of the MTX-responder and MTX intolerant groups. But we have not found significant differences between the MAF values of the MTX-responder and MTX-resistant Rheumatoid Arthritis -groups. Results: Our results suggest that MDR1 and MRP1 functional activity does not seem to affect the response rate to MTX-therapy of Rheumatoid Arthritis-patients, but it might be useful in predicting MTX-side effects. We have demonstrated the decreased functional MDR-activity on almost 60 Rheumatoid Arthritis patients, which can be interpreted as a sign of the immune-suppressive effect of the MTX-treatment.
Background: Recombinant bone morphogenetic protein two (rhBMP2) has been utilised for a variety of clinical applications in orthopaedic surgery and dental procedures. Despite its widespread use, concerns have been raised regarding its short half-life and transient bioactivity in vivo. Recent investigation aimed at developing rhBMP2 synthesized from a shorter polypeptide chain (108 amino acids) has been undertaken. Methods: The osteopromotive properties of BMP2 were investigated on cell behaviour. Five concentrations of rhBMP2_108 including 10, 50, 100, 200 and 500 ng/ml were compared to a commercially available rhBMP2 (100 ng/ml). Each of the working concentrations of rhBMP2_108 were investigated on MC3T3-E1 osteoblasts for their ability to induce osteoblast recruitment, proliferation and differentiation as assessed by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) staining, alizarin red staining, and real-time PCR for genes encoding ALP, osteocalcin (OCN), collagen-1 (COL-1) and Runx2. Results: The results demonstrate that all concentrations of rhBMP2_108 significantly improved cell recruitment and proliferation of osteoblasts at 5 days post seeding. Furthermore, rhBMP2_108 had the most pronounced effects on osteoblast differentiation. It was found that rhBMP2_108 had over a four fold significant increase in ALP activity at seven and 14 days post-seeding and the concentrations ranging from 50 to 200 ng/ml demonstrated the most pronounced effects. Analysis of real-time PCR for genes encoding ALP, OCN, COL-1 and Runx2 further confirmed dose-dependant increases at 14 days post-seeding. Furthermore, alizarin red staining demonstrated a concentration dependant increase in staining at 14 days. Conclusion: The results from the present study demonstrate that this shorter polypeptide chain of rhBMP2_108 is equally as bioactive as commercially available rhBMP2 for the recruitment of progenitor cells by facilitating their differentiation towards the osteoblast lineage. Future in vivo study are necessary to investigate its bioactivity.
Background: To investigate the antiapoptotic effect of Ukrain on intestinal lesion induced by mesenteric ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. Methods: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups: laparotomy (L), I/R, and Ukrain and I/R (U + I/R). In the U + I/R group, Ukrain (7 mg/kg) was given by intraperitoneal at the beginning of the study. 1 h after ukrain application, ischemia was induced for 30 minutes, and reperfusion was subsequently allowed for 120 minutes in the I/R and U + I/R groups. Rats were sacrificed at the end of reperfusion and intestinal tissues were collected for biochemical and molecular examination. Intestinal tissues caspase 3 protein were assayed. Serum Bcl-xL and iNOS were measured. The expression level of caspase-3, Bcl-xL and iNOS in intestinal tissue of rats were detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Results: Levels of serum iNOS and mRNA expression were increased in the I/R and decreased in the U + I/R group. In addition, levels of the proapoptotic gene caspase-3 protein and mRNA expression were increased in the I/R and decreased in the U + I/R group. Levels of the antiapoptotic gene Bcl-xL serum and mRNA expression were increased in the U + I/R group. Conclusions: Ukrain can reduce the ischemia-reperfusion injury in the intestinal tissue by inhibiting the cell apoptosis. The mechanism may be correlated with increased Bcl-xL mRNA expressions and decreased mRNA expressions of Caspase-3 and iNOS.
In this study, the behavior, distribution and form dynamics of overloaded Cu(II) in anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) granular sludge reactors were investigated. The performance and physiological characteristics were tracked by continuous-flow monitoring to evaluate the long-term effects. High Cu loading (0.24gL-1d-1) exceeded sludge bearing capacity, and precipitation dominated the removal pathway. The Cu distribution migrated from the extracellular polymeric substances-bound to the cell-associated Cu and the Cu forms shifted from the weakly bound to strongly bound fractions over time. Pearson correlation and fluorescence spectra analyses showed that the increase in protein concentrations in the EPS was a clear self-defense response to Cu(II) stress. Two remediation strategies, i.e., ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) washing and ultrasound-enhanced EDTA washing, weakened the equilibrium metal partition coefficient from 5.8 to 0.45 and 0.34Lmg-1SS, respectively, thereby accelerating the external diffusion of the Cu that had accumulated in the anammox granules.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Nitrogen and phosphorous limited cells (NLPL) showed maximum lipid productivity (49.1 ± 0.41 mg/L/d), 1.47 folds higher than control. Nitrogen depletion resulted in reduced cell size with large sized lipid droplets encompassing most of the intracellular space while discrete lipid bodies were observed under nitrogen sufficiency. Synergistic N/P starvations showed more prominent effect on photosynthetic pigments as to individual deprivations. Phosphorous deficiency along with N starvation exhibited 17.12% decline in carbohydrate while no change in nitrogen sufficient cells were recorded. The optimum NLPL concentration showed balance between biomass and lipid by maintaining intermediate cell size, pigments, carbohydrate and proteins. FAME profile showed C14–C18 carbon chains in NLPL cells with biodiesel properties comparable to plant oil methyl esters. Hence, synergistic N/P limitation was effective for enhancing lipid productivity with reduced consumption of nutrients.
Background: Bovine coronavirus is a primary cause of neonatal calf diarrhea worldwide, and is also associated with acute diarrhea in adult cattle during the winter season. There are no reports on molecular characterization of bovine coronavirus in Ireland, and little data exists apart from serological studies. Findings: In this study, 11 neonatal (mean age 9 days) calf BCoV strains from the south of Ireland were collected over a one year period and characterized using molecular methods. The spike gene which encodes a protein involved in viral entry, infectivity and immune response shows the most variability amongst the isolates and was subsequently selected for in depth analysis. Phylogenetic analysis of the spike gene revealed that the Irish strains clustered with novel BCoV strains from Europe in a unique clade, possibly indicating lineage partitioning. Direct analysis of alignments identified amino acid changes in the spike protein unique to the Irish clade. Conclusion: Thus, monitoring of bovine coronavirus in Ireland is important as the current isolates in circulation in the south of Ireland may be diverging from the available vaccine strain, which may have implications regarding future BCoV vaccine efficacy.
Background: Arabidopsis root growth is stimulated by Piriformospora indica, phosphate limitation and inactivation of the WRKY6 transcription factor. Combinations of these factors induce unexpected alterations in root and shoot growth, root architecture and root gene expression profiles. Results: The results demonstrate that P. indica promotes phosphate uptake and root development under Pi limitation in wrky6 mutant. This is associated with the stimulation of PHOSPHATE1 expression and ethylene production. Expression profiles from the roots of wrky6 seedlings identified genes involved in hormone metabolism, transport, meristem, cell and plastid proliferation, and growth regulation. 25 miRNAs were also up-regulated in these roots. We generated and discuss here a list of common genes which are regulated in growing roots and which are common to all three growth stimuli investigated in this study. Conclusion: Since root development of wrky6 plants exposed to P. indica under phosphate limitation is strongly promoted, we propose that common genes which respond to all three growth stimuli are central for the control of root growth and architecture. They can be tested for optimizing root growth in model and agricultural plants.
Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), normally used in the prevention of local bacterial infection, is also used for clinical debridement in bone and joint surgery. Studies show that treatment with H2O2 can cause cartilage damage, leading to postoperative complications. H2O2 can induce apoptosis because of its strong oxidation activity. To investigate the molecular mechanisms of H2O2-induced chondrocyte apoptosis, the rat chondrocytes from the knee joint were used as a cell model for this study. The results showed that the H2O2-treated cells survived at a decreased rate, with apoptosis in a great number of chondrocytes. The expression of pro-apoptotic factors of chondrocytes, Bcl-2 and Bcl-xl, were downregulated, while the pro-apoptotic factor Bax upregulated. Two important factors ERK and p38 in MAPK signaling pathway were phosphorylated at a higher level, leading to apoptosis of chondrocytes. This study described the molecular mechanism of H2O2-induced chondrocyte apoptosis, providing a theoretical basis for the rational and clinical use of H2O2 as a disinfectant.
Objective To investigate the effect of FCGR3A polymorphisms on the antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) activity induced by cetuximab against A549 cells. Methods A549 cell line was used as target cells and NKTm cells as effector cells. FCGR3A polymorphisms were detected by direct sequencing. The ADCC activity mediated by cetuximab was assessed by CCK-8 assay. Results Three genotypes of FCGR3A were detected; V/V, V/F, and F/F. The ADCC activity of NKTm cells with these three different genotypes mediated by cetuximab were significantly different (P =0.0015). NKTm cells with FCGR3A-158V/V genotypes had significantly higher ADCC activity than FCGR3A-V/F or F/F genotypes (P <0.01), whereas the ADCC activity between V/F and F/F genotype showed no statistical significance (P > 0.05). Conclusion FCGR3A polymorphisms have an impact on ADCC activity mediated by cetuximab in NKTm cells.
In this study, the use of jack bean was evaluated as a source for concanavalin A (Con A) and bio-sugar production. A novel method for purifying Con A from JBs was successfully developed using a glucosylated magnetic nano matrix (GMNM) as a physical support, which facilitated easy separation and purification of Con A. In addition, the enzymatic conversion rate of 2% (w/v) Con A extracted residue to bio-sugar was 98.4%. Therefore, this new approach for the production of Con A and bio-sugar is potentially useful for obtaining bio-based products from jack bean.
Synthetic materials in contact with protein containing solution adsorb a considerable amount of proteins. The adsorption behaviour of zinc-free porcine insulin on the hydrophobic poly(vinylidene fluoride) (PVDF) surfaces before and after chemical vapour deposition (CVD) modification was directly analysed by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionisation-time-of-flight-mass spectroscopy in surface mode (surface-MALDI-TOF-MS). The MALDI mass spectra of Zn-free porcine insulin dissolved in carbonate buffer pH 8.3 after adsorption onto non-modified and modified PVDF-CVD surfaces contain peaks assigned to monomer ion peak as well as peaks that are results of degradation of Zn-free porcine insulin. The degradation is caused by structural changes taking place during adsorption of insulin onto hydrophobic surfaces and by subsequent laser induced desorption and ionisation process. Surface spectra of Zn-free porcine insulin dissolved in deionised water show only monomer ion peaks of porcine insulin without degradation product detected. Structure stability of Zn-free porcine insulin upon adsorption is influenced by hydrophobic interaction between insulin and the surface.
Objective: To investigate characteristics of free fatty acid (FFA) and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and metabolic syndrome (MS) compared to those with type 2 diabetes mellitus without MS. Methods: Totally 120 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who received blood glucose control in Shaoxing People's Hospital from January to June 2013 were recruited and divided into MS group (n=56) and non-MS group (n=64). The serum FFA profile of the patients was measured by enzymatic assay, and the serum hs-CRP level measured by particle-enhanced immuno-precipitation assay. Results: The level of FFA was higher in the MS group than that in the non-MS group [(0.60±0.25) mmol/L vs. (0.45±0.21) mmol/L, P=0.033]. The level of hs-CRP was higher in the MS group than that in the non-MS group [5.29 (4.69-5.82) mg/L vs. 0.73 (0.42-1.26) mg/L, P=0.000]. The level of hs-CRP was higher in the patients with central obesity than that in those without central obesity [4.34 (0.91-5.46) mg/L vs. 1.80 (0.82-3.27) mg/L, P=0.014], also higher in hypertensive patients than in non-hypertensive patients [5.21 (3.18-5.96) mg/L vs. 2.93 (0.89-4.98) mg/L, P=0.012]. Conclusions: Serum FFA and hs-CRP concentrations may be significantly higher in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with MS. The increased levels of FFA and hs-CRP may play an important role in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes mellitus and MS.
Background: Schistosomiasis is a kind of parasitic zoonoses which causes serious damage to public health and social development. China is one of the countries most affected by Schistosoma japonicum and an effective vaccine is still needed. In this study, we adopted Tat-mediated protein transduction technology to investigate the impact of different antigen presented approaches on host's immune response and the potential protection against Schistosoma japonicum infection. Results: We successfully constructed the recombinant S. japonicum triosephosphate isomerase, Tat-TPI, as a vaccine candidate. Whether injected with Tat-TPI in foot pad or vaccinated with Tat-TPI in the back subcutaneously for three times, the draining popliteal lymph nodes and spleen both developed a stronger CD8+T response (Tc1) in mice. Not only that, but it also helped CD4+T cells to produce more IFN-γ than TPI immunisation. In addition, it could boost IgG production, especially IgG1 subclass. Most importantly, Tat-TPI immunisation led to the significant smaller area of a single egg granuloma in the livers as compared with TPI-vaccinated or control groups. However, the anti-infection efficiency induced by Tat-TPI was still restricted. Conclusion: This study indicated that immunisation with Tat-fused TPI could contribute to enhance CD4+T-cell response and decrease hepatic egg granulomatous area after S. japonicum infection though it did not achieve our expected protection against Schistosoma japonicum infection. The optimal vaccine strategy warrants further research.
Background: Pristane-treated mice chronically produce high levels of anti-ribonucleoprotein/Smith (anti-Sm/RNP) and other lupus autoantibodies. The present study addressed how these autoantibody levels are maintained over time. Methods: Lupus was induced in BALB/c mice using pristane. Naïve B cells, switched memory B cells, switched plasmablasts, and plasma cells were flow-sorted and total IgG and anti-U1A (RNP) autoantibodies were determined with ELISA. Results: B cells with a switched "memory-like" (CD19+CD138-IgM-IgD-) (sMB) phenotype were increased in pristane-treated mice and expressed higher levels of Toll like receptor 7 (Tlr7) than cells with this phenotype from untreated mice. Flow-sorted sMB cells from pristane-treated mice did not secrete IgG spontaneously, but were hyper-responsive to both synthetic (R848) and natural (apoptotic cells) TLR7 ligands, resulting in increased IgG production in vitro. The flow-sorted sMB cells also could be driven by R848 to produce IgG anti-U1A autoantibodies. Production of IgG was strongly inhibited by both JSH-23 and SB203580, suggesting that the canonical NFκB and p38 MAPK pathways, respectively, contribute to the TLR7 ligand hyper-responsiveness of sMB from pristane-treated mice. Conclusions: The switched memory B cell subset from pristane-treated mice is expanded and shows an increased propensity to undergo terminal (plasma cell) differentiation in response to synthetic and natural TLR7 ligands. The data suggest that the decreased clearance of apoptotic cells characteristic of pristane-treated mice might help maintain high serum levels of anti-RNP/Sm autoantibodies.
Baicalin is one of the active ingredients in the skullcap, with a variety of pharmacological effects, such as blood pressure reduction, sedation, liver-protection, gallbladder-protection, anti-bacteria, anti-inflammation, etc. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential cardioprotective effects of baicalin ameliorates isoproterenolinduced acute myocardial infarction (AMI) through inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), inflammation, oxidative stress and P38MAPK passageway in rat. Rat model of AMI was induced by isoproterenol (100 mg/kg) and then treated baicalin (various does of baicalin: 1 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg, respectively) for 24 h. Infarct size, the heart weight to body weight ratio and creatine kinase (CK), the MB isoenzyme of creatine kinase (CK-MB), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and cardiac troponin T (cTnT) of rats with AMI induced by isoproterenol were used to evaluate curative effect of baicalin on AMI. Meanwhile, iNOS and phosphorylation-p38 MAPK (p-p38) protein expressions, inflammatory factor and oxidative stress were inspected using western blot and commercial kits, respectively. In the present study, pre-treatment with baicalin (10 or 100 mg/kg) significantly ameliorated infarct size, the heart weight to body weight ratio and CK, CK-MB, LDH and cTnT levels in rats with AMI induced by isoproterenol. iNOS protein expression, the serum TNF-α, IL-6, MDA and SOD levels and p-38 protein expressions were significantly suppressed by treatment with baicalin (10 or 100 mg/kg). These results suggest that acute treatment with baicalin ameliorates AMI, iNOS, inflammation, oxidative stress and P38MAPK pathway in rat with AMI induced by isoproterenol.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
We report thermally triggered self-assembly of folded proteins into vesicles that incorporates globular proteins as building blocks. Leucine zipper coiled coils were combined with either globular proteins or elastin-like polypeptides as recombinant fusion proteins, which form "rod-coil" and "globule-rod-coil" protein complex amphiphiles. In aqueous solution, they self-assembled into hollow vesicles via temperature-responsive inverse phase transition. The characteristic of the protein vesicle membranes enables preferential encapsulation of simultaneously formed protein coacervate. Furthermore, the type of encapsulated cargo extends to small molecules and nanoparticles. Our approach offers a versatile strategy to create protein vesicles as vehicles with biological functionality.
This book, Applied Food Protein Chemistry is divided into three main sections. The first section provides an in-depth review of properties of food proteins. It includes an overview of amino acid, peptide, and protein chemistry. It also covers protein denaturation, chemical modification, functional properties of food proteins, nutritional aspects, and antioxidant properties. The second section provides an in-depth review of chemistry and properties of key food proteins derived from plant sources such as soy, canola, maize, wheat, rice, and sorghum and millet proteins. The third and last section is on animal sources of food proteins and their properties, and includes chapters on muscle, seafood, milk, and egg proteins.
This chapter presents an overview of soybean proteins; it includes world soybean production, distribution, and utilization. Special emphasis has been given to important physicochemical properties of soybean proteins, examples of laboratory and industrial preparations of soybean protein ingredients, their functional properties, and applications in foods. The chapter also highlights soybean proteins composition. Most recently reported modifications on protein structure through new technologies and chemical and enzymatic reactions are presented. Health benefits of soybean proteins and their principal allergens and inhibitors are also reviewed.
One of the proposed mechanisms of homocysteine toxicity in human is the modification of proteins by the metabolite of Hcy, homocysteine thilolactone (HTL). Incubation of proteins with HTL has earlier been shown to form covalent adducts with e-amino group of lysine residues of protein (called N-homocysteinylation). It has been believed that protein N-homocysteinylation is the pathological hallmark of cardiovascular and neurodegenerative disorders as homocysteinylation induces structural and functional alterations in proteins. In the present study, reactivity of HTL towards proteins with different physico-chemical properties and hence their structural and functional alterations were studied using different spectroscopic approaches. We found that N-homocysteinylation has opposite consequences on acidic and basic proteins suggesting that pI of the protein determines the extent of homocysteinylation, and the structural and functional consequences due to homocysteinylation. Mechanistically, pI of protein determines the extent of Nhomocysteinylation and the associated structural and functional alterations. The study suggests the role of HTL primarily targeting acidic proteins in eliciting its toxicity that could yield mechanistic insights for the associated neurodegeneration.
Objective: To detect the antibodies against recombinant chlamydial plasmid-encoded protein 3 (rPgp3), chlamydial protease-like activity factor (rCPAF), Ct143 encoded protein (rCT143), Ct101 encoded protein (rCT101), Ct694 encoded protein (rCT694), Ct813 encoded protein (rCT813), Chlamydia membrane protein A (rIncA), Ct875 encoded protein (rCT875), major outer membrane protein (rMOMP) and heat shock protein 60 (rHsp60) in serum samples collected form patients with urogenital Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) infection and to evaluate the antigenicity of those proteins. Methods The recombinant plasmids expressing the 10 proteins and a blank plasmid were transformed into E. coli BL21 strains, respectively. The transformed E. coli BL21 strains were induced by isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyr-anoside (IPTG) to express recombinant proteins. The glutathione pre-coated 96-well ELISA plates were coated with lysates. Serum samples were collected from 50 patients with Ct infection and 10 patients without Ct infection. ELISA was performed to detect the antibodies against 10 recombinant proteins. Results: The antibodies against rPgP3, rCPAF, rCT143, rCT101, rCT694, rCT875, rCT813, rMOMP, rlncA and rHsP60 proteins were respectively detected in 44 cases (88%), 38 cases (76%), 37 cases (74%), 36 cases (72%), 33 cases (66%), 31 cases (62%), 30 cases (60%), 26 cases (52%), 24 cases (48%) and 17 cases (34%) out of 50 serum samples. No antibodies against 10 recombinant proteins were detected in the serum samples collected from patients without Ct infection. Conclusion: The rPgp3 protein showed the strongest antigenicity among all of the studied proteins, followed by rCPAF and rCT143 proteins. The rHsp60 protein showed the lowest antigenicity.
Milk proteins consist of two major protein groups, including caseins and whey proteins, and minor proteins including indigenous milk enzymes and milkfat globule membrane proteins. Caseins comprise a group of four distinct proteins that are present in milk as colloidal particles in association with each other with calcium phosphate linkages can be separated from whey proteins by precipitation from milk at pH 4.6 and 20°C. The caseins are heat-stable proteins with unique structural-functional properties. The properties of caseins and commercial casein-rich products (i.e., caseinates, milk protein concentrates) food and non-food applications are discussed. Whey proteins consist of individual sulfur-rich globular proteins that remain soluble in milk after casein precipitation but are denatured by high-heat treatment. Whey protein products derived from acid- or rennet-coagulation of milk have unique functional properties in food systems depending on the mode of manufacture and protein level. Their functional properties are also discussed.
Surimi is refined fish myofibrillar proteins stabilized with cryoprotectants and used as a raw material for various surimi seafood products. Surimi production starts with heading, gutting, mincing, washing dewatering, and freezing. Refining process of fish muscle is to concentrate desired myofibrillar proteins while removing undesired components such lipid, stroma proteins, sarcoplasmic proteins, and other impurities. Refined fish myofibrillar proteins, which are virtually surimi, have unique gelling ability to transform fish meat into a wide range of surimi seafood. Unlike other proteins that form a gel, fish myofibrillar proteins have setting ability that forms a gel if salted paste is held at a certain temperature (5-40°C) depending on fish's own thermal stability. Its gelling and setting uniqueness has played a major role in the development of numerous surimi seafood products and contributed positively to the successful market position of these products.
Experiments have demonstrated that changing the rate at which the ribosome translates a codon position in an mRNA molecules open reading frame can alter the behavior of the newly synthesized protein. That is, codon translation rates can govern nascent proteome behavior. We emphasize that this phenomenon is a manifestation of the nonequilibrium nature of cotranslational processes, and as such, there exist theoretical tools that offer a potential means to quantitatively predict the influence of codon translation rates on the broad spectrum of nascent protein behaviors including cotranslational folding, aggregation, and translocation. We provide a review of the experimental evidence for the impact that codon translation rates can have, followed by a discussion of theoretical methods that can describe this phenomenon. The development and application of these tools are likely to provide fundamental insights into protein maturation and homeostasis, codon usage bias in organisms, the origins of translation related diseases, and new rational design methods for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical applications.
We recently showed that a Rab protein, CPRabA5e (CP D chloroplast localized), is located in chloroplasts of Arabidopsis thaliana where it is involved in various processes, such as thylakoid biogenesis and vesicle transport. Using a yeast two-hybrid method, CPRabA5e was shown to interact with a number of chloroplast proteins, including the CURVATURE THYLAKOID 1A (CURT1A) protein and the lightharvesting chlorophyll a/b binding protein (LHCB1.5). CURT1A has recently been shown to modify thylakoid architecture by inducing membrane curvature in grana, whereas LHCB1.5 is a protein of PSII (Photosystem II) facilitating light capture. LHCB1.5 is imported to chloroplasts and transported to thylakoid membranes using the post-translational Signal Recognition Particle (SRP) pathway. With this information as starting point, we here discuss their subsequent proteinprotein interactions, given by the literature and Interactome 3D. CURT1A itself and several of the proteins interacting with CURT1A and LHCB1.5 have relations to vesicle transport and thylakoid morphology, which are also characteristics of cprabA5e mutants. This highlights the previous hypothesis of an alternative thylakoid targeting pathway for LHC proteins using vesicles, in addition to the SRP pathway.
but also for their detrimental effects. Although proteins from milk, meats (including fish and poultry), eggs, cereals, legumes, and oilseeds have been the traditional sources of protein in the human diet, potentially any proteins from a biological source could serve as a food protein. The primary role of protein in the diet is to provide the building materials for the synthesis of muscle and other tissues, and they play a critical role in many biological processes. They are also responsible for food texture, color, and flavor. Today, food proteins are extracted, modified, and incorporated into processed foods to impart specific functional properties. They can also have adverse effects in the diet: proteins, such as walnuts, pecans, almonds, and cashews, soybean, wheat, milk, egg, crustacean, and fish proteins can be powerful allergens for some people. Applied Food Protein Chemistry is an applied reference which reviews the properties of food proteins and provides in-depth information on important plant and animal proteins consumed around the world. The book is grouped into three sections: (1) overview of food proteins, (2) plant proteins, and (3) animal proteins. Each chapter discusses world production, distribution, utilization, physicochemical properties, and the functional properties of each protein, as well as its food applications. The authors for each of the chapters are carefully selected experts in the field. This book will be a valuable reference tool for those who work on food proteins. It will also be an important text on applied food protein chemistry for upper-level students and graduate students of food science programs.
Denaturation is the change in native structure of a protein. Most food proteins are consumed in their denatured state. Protein denaturation may be desirable or undesirable depending on the circumstances. Denaturation increases the digestibility of a protein, often makes it more palatable, and inactivates deteriorative enzymes. However, depending on the extent of denaturation and modification of the protein, its nutritional value may be lost. Functional properties of denatured proteins are different from that of native proteins; thus denaturation is often used to alter functional properties of food proteins. Properties of food proteins can also be altered through chemical and enzymatic modifications. Processing also alters food proteins. Thermal processing is the common and traditional method of processing foods. However, nonthermal processes such as high pressure and pulsed electric field processing have been of interest recently. This chapter reviews denaturation, chemical modification of food proteins as well as processing-induced changes.
Plants as sessile organisms are strongly challenged by environmental stresses. Many plants species are able to cold-acclimate, acquiring higher freezing tolerance upon exposure to low but nonfreezing temperatures. Among a plethora of adaptational processes, this involves the accumulation of cold regulated (COR) proteins that are assumed to stabilize and protect cellular structures during freezing. However, their molecular functions are largely unknown. We recently reported a comprehensive study of 2 intrinsically disordered cold regulated chloroplast proteins, COR15A and COR15B from Arabidopsis thaliana. They are necessary for full cold acclimation. During freezing, they stabilize leaf cells through folding and binding to chloroplast membranes. Contrary to evidence from in-vitro experiments, they play no role in enzyme stabilization in vivo. Elucidating these major functional and structural characteristics and estimation of protein abundance allow us to propose a detailed model for the mode of action of the two COR15 proteins.
14–3–3 proteins play essential roles in diverse cellular processes through the direct binding to target proteins. REPRESSION OF SHOOT GROWTH (RSG) is a tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) transcription factor that is involved in gibberellin (GA) feedback regulation. The 14–3–3 proteins bind to RSG depending on the RSG phosphorylation of Ser-114 and negatively regulate RSG by sequestering it in the cytoplasm in response to GAs. The Ca2C -dependent protein kinase NtCDPK1 was identified as an RSG kinase that promotes 14–3–3 binding of RSG by phosphorylation of RSG. 14–3– 3 weakly binds to NtCDPK1 by a new mode. The autophosphorylation of NtCDPK1 was necessary for the formation of the binding between NtCDPK1 and 14–3–3 but not for its maintenance. In this study, we showed that 14–3–3 binding to NtCDPK1 does not require the autophosphorylation when RSG was bound to NtCDPK1. These data suggest that 14–3–3 binds to an unphosphorylated motif in NtCDPK1 exposed by a conformational change in NtCDPK1 but not to a phosphate group generated by autophosphorylation of NtCDPK1.
Rice proteins are considered healthy for human consumption because of important nutritional and health properties, particularly their unique hypoallergenicity. They can serve as excellent ingredients for value-added food products. Proteins are present in rice hull, bran, and the endosperm, but bran has the highest content. The best sources of rice proteins are the bran and broken rice because these by-products of rice processing are undervalued and with limited applications. Depending on solubility, rice proteins are classified into albumins (water-soluble), globulins (salt-soluble), prolamins (alcohol-soluble) and glutelins (alkali-soluble). Although other extraction methods have been tried for rice proteins, alkali and enzymatic methods remain the most popular. The functional properties of protein hydrolysates from rice bran and rice endosperm and their various food applications are described in this chapter.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Natural antioxidants are essential in today's food and beverage product development tool kit; however, there is still room for the discovery and development of additional functional antioxidants, such as those found in proteins. The literature reveals abundance in the number of studies highlighting the antioxidant potential and elucidating the mode of action of a wide number of animal and vegetable proteins from milk, eggs, fish, soybean, canola, wheat, yellow peas, chickpeas, hemp, potato, and others.
Sustained inflammation may increase the susceptibility of hepatocytes to apoptotic cell death and therefore exacerbate liver damage. Here we report that the proinflammatory cytokine IL-1β sensitizes primary murine hepatocytes to Fas ligand (FasL)-induced caspase-3/-7 activity. This process was dependent on JNK1/2 and the BH3-only proteins Bim and Bid. Mathematical modeling revealed that incubation of hepatocytes with IL-1β depleted the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein pool and thus shifted hepatocytes to mitochondrial type II apoptosis following Fas activation. As a consequence, IL-1β and FasL treatment enhanced cytochrome c release. Surprisingly, despite increased caspase-3/-7 activation, FasL-induced cell death was reduced by IL-1β pre-treatment. This protective effect was independent of JNK1/2, Bim or Bid. Furthermore, elevated caspase-3/-7 activity upon IL-1β and FasL treatment did not result in enhanced PARP cleavage. The protective effect of IL-1β was seen after 3 h of pre-incubation, indicating an anti-apoptotic transcriptional response. Indeed, NF-κB DNA binding was increased in response to IL-1β plus FasL and gene-expression profiling of NF-κB regulated genes revealed a transcriptional and translational upregulation of the caspase-8 inhibitor A20. A mathematical model was developed to explain the contradictious occurrence of both increased caspase-3/-7 activity and elevated cell viability by including a heterogeneous distribution of Bcl-2 proteins and variations in Fas signaling resulting in different subpopulations of hepatocytes.
Proteins are polymers of amino acids that are covalently joined by a substituted amide linkage named a peptide bond. There are 20 different amino acids that make up food proteins. The 20 amino acids differ in their side groups, which vary in size, structure, charge. Amino acids can act as acids and bases. There are four levels of protein structure. These are defined as primary, secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structures. The primary structure of a protein is the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide. The primary structure of a food protein is very important in that it determines the subsequent structural conformation and ultimately the function of that protein. A variety of intra- and intermolecular forces provide for proteins stability. Food proteins occur in a wide variety of sizes and amino acid composition, and can be small or very large. This chapter will provide an overview of amino acid, peptide, and protein chemistry.
Proteins comprise one of the main food components that serve a variety of functions in foods including being structural building blocks and stabilizers of the interface, and providing essential nutrition. Functionality of food proteins remains a significant part of food protein research and very relevant in the development of food products with elaborated structures that deliver additional nutrition and health benefits. New concepts are being incorporated into the definition of protein functionality to reflect the contribution of proteins in the complexity of food structures and functions. It is the main intention of this chapter to highlight the most recent developments on the concepts and principles of functional properties of food proteins, on the techniques used to characterize protein functionality in the complex world of food and the factors that come to play in desirable or unwanted modification of the functionality of food proteins.
This chapter covers the functional properties of canola proteins, especially cruciferin and napin and their peptides. Processing of canola protein involves physicochemical, enzymatic and thermal treatments that affect the nutritional value and functional properties of the final products. In addition, those factors affecting the functional properties (gelation, water retention capacity, thermal properties, and emulsion capacity) of cruciferin and napin are also discussed. These properties can be modified by chemical and enzymatic treatment. This chapter also covers the bioactivity of canola proteins and peptides, including ACE inhibition; antioxidant, antidiabetic, anticancer, antimicrobial and anorexigenic activities; as well as hypocholesteromic effects and bile-binding capacity. The potential of canola proteins in aquaculture and in vivo dietary toxicity is also included. Incorporation of canola proteins and peptides into foods to enhance nutritive value and functional properties is also discussed.
Transport of proteins containing a nuclear localization signal (NLS) into the nucleus is mediated by nuclear transport receptors called importins, typically dimmers of a cargo-binding α-subunit and a β-subunit that mediates translocation through the nuclear pore complexes (NPCs). However, how proteins without canonical NLS move into the nucleus is not well understood. Recent results indicate that phospholipids, such as phosphatidic acid, play important roles in the intracellular translocation of proteins between the nucleus and cytoplasm.
The mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU) is the critical protein of the inner mitochondrial membrane mediating the electrophoretic Ca2+ uptake into the matrix. It plays a fundamental role in the shaping of global calcium signaling and in the control of aerobic metabolism as well as apoptosis. Two features of mitochondrial calcium signaling have been known for a long time: i) mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake widely varies among cells and tissues, and ii) channel opening strongly relies on the extramitochondrial Ca2+ concentration, with low activity at resting [Ca2+] and high capacity as soon as calcium signaling is activated. Such complexity requires a specialized molecular machinery, with several primary components can be variably gathered together in order to match energy demands and protect from toxic stimuli. In line with this, MCU is now recognized to be part of a macromolecular complex known as the MCU complex. Our understanding of the structure and function of the MCU complex is now growing promptly, revealing an unexpected complexity that highlights the pleiotropic role of mitochondrial Ca2+ signals. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: 13th European Symposium on Calcium.
Protein represents the most important and quantitatively dominant element of all organisms and is the basic requirement for life, yet availability of high-quality protein sources remains a challenge across many parts of the world. The optimum match between dietary protein and human needs is vital to support the health and well-being of the growing human populations. It is thus increasingly important that the quality and amount of protein required to meet the amino acid needs for humans to be better defined. Newer approaches are needed to improve the accuracy of protein quality estimates currently done with the protein digestibility corrected amino acid score (PDCAAS) method. These methods are discussed, including use of individual amino acids, sampling of ileal digesta, and considering a different animal model. In parallel, refinement for protein and amino acid requirement estimates are needed to better predict protein needs across all ages.
Sorghum and millet proteins are an important source of dietary protein for significant numbers of people living throughout Africa and parts of Asia. Compared with other food proteins such as those found in milk, eggs, and wheat, little is known about the functionality of sorghum and millet proteins. Enhancing the functional and nutritional properties of sorghum and millet proteins could play an important role in improving the lives of people that depend on these grains as basic food staples. Developing new uses for these proteins could also lead to enhanced economic opportunities. The use of isolated sorghum proteins as bioplastic films is one example of such potential. The structure and interactions of sorghum and millet proteins display unique properties compared with other cereal grains. Their importance to the food security for large portions of the world emphasizes the need for continued research to increase our knowledge of this vital nutritional resource.
The present study investigated the changes of the chemical components and cytotoxicity potency at 5 developmental stages of Pleurotus eryngii fruiting body. The carbohydrate and protein contents increased along the maturity of fruiting body while fat content decreased. By comparison, the polysaccharide-protein fractions had the highest antiproliferative effect on SGC-7901 and HepG-2 cells in vitro and increasing activity with growing maturity of P. eryngii fruiting body.The maturation process increased the protein content and acid property through the enhanced relative abundance of Asp, Thr, and Glu in polysaccharide-protein fractions. Further purification and electrophoresis identified that the polysaccharide-protein PEG- 1with three subunits possibly was the target cytotoxical component. Our findings proved that mature fruiting body of P. eryngii containing these polysaccharide-proteins possessed highly nutritional values and therapeutical benefits.
The aberrant interaction between p53 and Mdm2/MdmX is an attractive target for cancer drug discovery because the overexpression of Mdm2 and/or MdmX ultimately impairs the function of p53 in approximately half of all human cancers. Recent studies have shown that inhibition of both Mdm2 and MdmX is more efficient than that of a single target in promoting cellular apoptosis in cancers. In this study, we demonstrate that a dual small-molecule antagonist of Mdm2/MdmX can efficiently reactivate the p53 pathway in model cancer cells overexpressing MdmX and/or Mdm2. The dual antagonist was rationally designed based on segmental mutational analysis of the N-terminal domain of MdmX and the crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of Mdm2 in complex with nutlin-3a (an Mdm2-specific inhibitor). The current work establishes a small molecule therapeutic candidate that targets cancers overexpressing Mdm2 and/or MdmX.
T rithorax group (trxG) and Polycomb group (PcG) proteins are epigenetic modifiers that play key roles in eukaryotic development by promoting active or repressive gene expression states, respectively. Although PcG proteins have well-defined roles in controlling developmental transitions, cell fate decisions and cellular differentiation in plants, relatively little is known about the functions of plant trxG factors. We recently determined the biological roles for the ULT1 and ULT2 trxG genes during Arabidopsis vegetative and reproductive development. Our study revealed that ULT1 and ULT2 genes have overlapping activities in regulating Arabidopsis shoot and floral stem cell activity, and that they have a redundant function in establishing the apical-basal polarity axis of the gynoecium. Here we present data that ult1 and ult1 ult2 siliques contain a significant proportion of aborted ovules, supporting an additional role for ULT1 in Arabidopsis fertility. Our results add to the number of plant developmental processes that are regulated by trxG activity.
Wheat is uniquely suited to the baking of leavened bread mainly because of its protein composition. The flour-forming endosperm contains storage proteins that form the gluten complex after grinding and mixing with water. Essential to the unique dough structure are the glutenin polypeptides that are disulfide cross-linked into polymers with a wide range of molecular weights. Their contribution to dough strength is balanced by the smaller gliadin proteins. Our knowledge of composition-function relationships permits the prediction of dough quality. The bran and germ tissues contain a further range of proteins. The important attributes of grain hardness and milling quality are explained by variations in protein composition, especially for the puroindolines. Specific amino acid sequences of wheat proteins have been shown to be responsible for wheat-related health issues, including celiac disease. Proteomic studies of the wheat proteins are bringing new insights into their composition and functional properties.
Normal and painful stimuli are detected by specialized subgroups of peripheral sensory neurons. The understanding of the functional differences of each neuronal subgroup would be strongly enhanced by knowledge of the respective subgroup transcriptome. The separation of the subgroup of interest, however, has proven challenging as they can hardly be enriched. Instead of enriching, we now rapidly eliminated the subgroup of neurons expressing the heat-gated cation channel TRPV1 from dissociated rat sensory ganglia. Elimination was accomplished by brief treatment with TRPV1 agonists followed by the removal of compromised TRPV1(+) neurons using density centrifugation. By differential microarray and sequencing (RNA-Seq) based expression profiling we compared the transcriptome of all cells within sensory ganglia versus the same cells lacking TRPV1 expressing neurons, which revealed 240 differentially expressed genes (adj. p<0.05, fold-change>1.5). Corroborating the specificity of the approach, many of these genes have been reported to be involved in noxious heat or pain sensitization. Beyond the expected enrichment of ion channels, we found the TRPV1 transcriptome to be enriched for GPCRs and other signaling proteins involved in adenosine, calcium, and phosphatidylinositol signaling. Quantitative population analysis using a recent High Content Screening (HCS) microscopy approach identified substantial heterogeneity of expressed target proteins even within TRPV1-positive neurons. Signaling components defined distinct further subgroups within the population of TRPV1-positive neurons. Analysis of one such signaling system showed that the pain sensitizing prostaglandin PGD<inf>2</inf> activates DP1 receptors expressed predominantly on TRPV1(+) neurons. In contrast, we found the PGD<inf>2</inf> producing prostaglandin D synthase to be expressed exclusively in myelinated large-diameter neurons lacking TRPV1, which suggests a novel paracrine neuron-neuron communication. Thus, subgroup analysis based on the elimination rather than enrichment of the subgroup of interest revealed proteins that define subclasses of TRPV1-positive neurons and suggests a novel paracrine circuit.
; licensee BioMed Central.Background: Assembly and disassembly of microtubules (MTs) is critical for neurite outgrowth and differentiation. Evidence suggests that nerve growth factor (NGF) induces neurite outgrowth from PC12 cells by activating the receptor tyrosine kinase, TrkA. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) as well as heterotrimeric G proteins are also involved in regulating neurite outgrowth. However, the possible connection between these pathways and how they might ultimately converge to regulate the assembly and organization of MTs during neurite outgrowth is not well understood. Results: Here, we report that Gβγ, an important component of the GPCR pathway, is critical for NGF-induced neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells. We have found that NGF promoted the interaction of Gβγ with MTs and stimulated MT assembly. While Gβγ-sequestering peptide GRK2i inhibited neurite formation, disrupted MTs, and induced neurite damage, the Gβγ activator mSIRK stimulated neurite outgrowth, which indicates the involvement of Gβγ in this process. Because we have shown earlier that prenylation and subsequent methylation/demethylation of γ subunits are required for the Gβγ-MTs interaction in vitro, small-molecule inhibitors (L-28 and L-23) targeting prenylated methylated protein methyl esterase (PMPMEase) were tested in the current study. We found that these inhibitors disrupted Gβγ and MT organization and affected cellular morphology and neurite outgrowth. In further support of a role of Gβγ-MT interaction in neuronal differentiation, it was observed that overexpression of Gβγ in PC12 cells induced neurite outgrowth in the absence of added NGF. Moreover, overexpressed Gβγ exhibited a pattern of association with MTs similar to that observed in NGF-differentiated cells. Conclusions: Altogether, our results demonstrate that βγ subunit of heterotrimeric G proteins play a critical role in neurite outgrowth and differentiation by interacting with MTs and modulating MT rearrangement.
Eggs are considered one of the most nutritious and versatile of human foods. Egg is a one of the best food protein sources in the diet, because it contains all of the essential amino acids required. Also, the egg's unique functional properties make it an important ingredient in food systems. Understanding egg protein chemistry and functionality, such as gelation, foaming, emulsification, and coagulation, is important for the application of hen eggs in the food industry. This chapter comprehensively reviews the chemistry of egg proteins and their functional properties to improve the understanding of eggs in food systems.
Aldehydes are widely recognized as valuable synthetic handles for the chemoselective manipulation of peptides and proteins. In this report, we show that peptides and small proteins containing the aspartic acid semialdehyde (Asa) side chain can be easily prepared by a chemoselective amide-forming ligation that results in the formation of the Asa residue at the ligation site. This strategy employs the α-ketoacid-hydroxylamine (KAHA) ligation in combination with a new isoxazolidine monomer that forms a side-chain aldehyde upon ligation. This monomer is easily prepared on a preparative scale by a catalytic, enantioselective approach and is readily introduced onto the N-terminus of a peptide segment by solid phase peptide synthesis. The ligated product can be further functionalized by bioorthogonal reactions between the aldehyde residue and alkoxyamines or hydrazides. We demonstrated that glucagon aldehyde, an unprotected 29-mer peptide prepared by KAHA ligation, can be site specifically and chemoselectively modified with biotin, dyes, aliphatic oximes, and hydroxylamines. We further describe a simple and high recovery one-step purification process based on the capture of a 29-mer glucagon aldehyde and a 76-mer ubiquitin aldehyde by an alkoxyamine-functionalized polyethylene glycol resin. The peptide or protein was released from the resin by addition of a hydroxylamine to provide the corresponding oximes.
Elevation of the dietary saturated fatty acid palmitate contributes to the reduction of functional beta cell mass in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. The diabetogenic effect of palmitate is achieved by increasing beta cell death through induction of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress markers including activating transcription factor 3 (Atf3) and CAAT/enhancer-binding protein homologous protein-10 (Chop). In this study, we investigated whether treatment of beta cells with the MS-275, a HDAC1 and HDAC3 activity inhibitor which prevents beta cell death elicited by cytokines, is beneficial for combating beta cell dysfunction caused by palmitate. We show that culture of isolated human islets and MIN6 cells with MS-275 reduced apoptosis evoked by palmitate. The protective effect of MS-275 was associated with the attenuation of the expression of Atf3 and Chop. Silencing of HDAC3, but not of HDAC1, mimicked the effects of MS-275 on the expression of the two ER stress markers and apoptosis. These data point to HDAC3 as a potential drug target for preserving beta cells against lipotoxicity in diabetes.
Osteosarcoma is an aggressive bone tumor that preferentially develops in adolescents. The tumor is characterized by an abundance of genomic aberrations, which hampers the identification of the driver genes involved in osteosarcoma tumorigenesis. Our study aims to identify these genes by the investigation of focal copy number aberrations (CNAs, <3 Mb). For this purpose, we subjected 26 primary tumors of osteosarcoma patients to high-resolution single nucleotide polymorphism array analyses and identified 139 somatic focal CNAs. Of these, 72 had at least one gene located within or overlapping the focal CNA, with a total of 94 genes. For 84 of these genes, the expression status in 31 osteosarcoma samples was determined by expression microarray analysis. This enabled us to identify the genes of which the over- or underexpression was in more than 35% of cases in accordance to their copy number status (gain or loss). These candidate genes were subsequently validated in an independent set and furthermore corroborated as driver genes by verifying their role in other tumor types. We identified CMTM8 as a new candidate tumor suppressor gene and GPR177 as a new candidate oncogene in osteosarcoma. In osteosarcoma, CMTM8 has been shown to suppress EGFR signaling. In other tumor types, CMTM8 is known to suppress the activity of the oncogenic protein c-Met and GPR177 is known as an overexpressed upstream regulator of the Wnt-pathway. Further studies are needed to determine whether these proteins also exert the latter functions in osteosarcoma tumorigenesis.
Background: Amphiphilic peptides are important building blocks to generate nanostructured biomaterials for drug delivery and tissue engineering applications. We have shown that the self-assembling peptide SA2 (Ac-AAVVLLLWEE) can be recombinantly produced in E. coli when fused to the small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) protein. Although this system yielded peptides of high purity with no residual amino acids after cleavage of the SUMO fusion protein, the yield after purification was generally low (~1 mg/L bacterial culture) as compared to other peptides and proteins produced with the same method and under the same conditions. Results: The aim of this study is to understand the underlying mechanisms causing the low yield of this recombinant peptide in E. coli and to optimize both production and purification of recombinant SA2 peptides. It was demonstrated that by simply changing the medium to a well-balanced auto-induction medium the yield of recombinant production was augmented (~4 fold). Moreover, it was demonstrated that self-assembly of SUMO-SA2 fusion proteins caused the low peptide yields after purification. By replacing the second IMAC purification step with a selective precipitation step, peptide yields could be increased approx. 3 fold. With these optimizations in place the overall yield of purified SA2 peptide increased with 12-fold. Conclusion: Premature self-assembly of the SUMO-SA2 fusion construct interfered with proper purification of the SA2 peptide, resulting in low yields of purified peptide and this could be prevented by changing the mode of purification. These findings are important when setting up purification schemes for other self-assembling peptides with the use of a SUMO fusion construct.
Stochasticity in gene expression can give rise to fluctuations in protein levels and lead to phenotypic variation across a population of genetically identical cells. Recent experiments indicate that bursting and feedback mechanisms play important roles in controlling noise in gene expression and phenotypic variation. A quantitative understanding of the impact of these factors requires analysis of the corresponding stochastic models. However, for stochastic models of gene expression with feedback and bursting, exact analytical results for protein distributions have not been obtained so far. Here, we analyze a model of gene expression with bursting and feedback regulation and obtain exact results for the corresponding protein steady-state distribution. The results obtained provide new insights into the role of bursting and feedback in noise regulation and optimization. Furthermore, for a specific choice of parameters, the system studied maps on to a two-state biochemical switch driven by a bursty input noise source. The analytical results derived provide quantitative insights into diverse cellular processes involving noise in gene expression and biochemical switching.
A synthetic mimic of viral structure has been constructed by the synergistic co-assembly of a 16-amino acid peptide and plasmid DNA. The rational design of this short peptide, including segments for binding DNA and forming β-sheet, is inspired by viral capsid protein. The resulting nanostructures, which we term nanococoons, appear as ellipsoids of virus-like dimension (65 × 47 nm) and display repeating stripes of ∼4 nm wide. We propose that the co-assembly process involves DNA as a template to assist the organization of peptide strands by electrostatic interaction, while the bilayer β-sheets and their lateral association stabilize the peptide "capsid" and organize the DNA within. The hierarchy affords an extremely stable structure, protecting peptide and DNA against enzymatic digestion. It opens a new and facile avenue to fabricate viral alternatives with diverse functions.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Trypanosomes are protozoan parasites that cause diseases in humans and livestock for which no vaccines are available. Disease eradication requires sensitive diagnostic tools and efficient treatment strategies. Immunodiagnostics based on antigen detection are preferable to antibody detection because the latter cannot differentiate between active infection and cure. Classical monoclonal antibodies are inaccessible to cryptic epitopes (based on their size-150 kDa), costly to produce and require cold chain maintenance, a condition that is difficult to achieve in trypanosomiasis endemic regions, which are mostly rural. Nanobodies are recombinant, heat-stable, small-sized (15 kDa), antigen-specific, single-domain, variable fragments derived from heavy chain-only antibodies in camelids. Because of numerous advantages over classical antibodies, we investigated the use of nanobodies for the targeting of trypanosome-specific antigens and diagnostic potential. An alpaca was immunized using lysates of Trypanosoma evansi. Using phage display and bio-panning techniques, a cross-reactive nanobody (Nb392) targeting all trypanosome species and isolates tested was selected. Imunoblotting, immunofluorescence microscopy, immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry assays were combined to identify the target recognized. Nb392 targets paraflagellar rod protein (PFR1) of T. evansi, T. brucei, T. congolense and T. vivax. Two different RNAi mutants with defective PFR assembly (PFR2<sup>RNAi</sup> and KIF9B<sup>RNAi</sup>) were used to confirm its specificity. In conclusion, using a complex protein mixture for alpaca immunization, we generated a highly specific nanobody (Nb392) that targets a conserved trypanosome protein, i.e., PFR1 in the flagella of trypanosomes. Nb392 is an excellent marker for the PFR and can be useful in the diagnosis of trypanosomiasis. In addition, as demonstrated, Nb392 can be a useful research or PFR protein isolation tool.
Autophagic (type II) cell death, characterized by the massive accumulation of autophagic vacuoles in the cytoplasm of cells, has been suggested to play pathogenetic roles in cerebral ischemia, brain trauma, and neurodegenerative disorders. 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or ecstasy) is an illicit drug causing long-term neurotoxicity in the brain. Apoptotic (type I) and necrotic (type III) cell death have been implicated in MDMA-induced neurotoxicity, while the role of autophagy in MDMA-elicited neurotoxicity has not been investigated. The present study aimed to evaluate the occurrence and contribution of autophagy to neurotoxicity in cultured rat cortical neurons challenged with MDMA. Autophagy activation was monitored by expression of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3; an autophagic marker) using immunofluorescence and western blot analysis. Here, we demonstrate that MDMA exposure induced monodansylcadaverine (MDC)- and LC3B-densely stained autophagosome formation and increased conversion of LC3B-I to LC3B-II, coinciding with the neurodegenerative phase of MDMA challenge. Autophagy inhibitor 3- methyladenine (3-MA) pretreatment significantly attenuated MDMA-induced autophagosome accumulation, LC3B-II expression, and ameliorated MDMAtriggered neurite damage and neuronal death. In contrast, enhanced autophagy flux by rapamycin or impaired autophagosome clearance by bafilomycin A1 led to more autophagosome accumulation in neurons and aggravated neurite degeneration, indicating that excessive autophagosome accumulation contributesto MDMA-induced neurotoxicity. Furthermore, MDMA induced phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and its downstream unc-51-like kinase 1 (ULK1), suggesting the AMPK/ULK1 signaling pathway might be involved in MDMA-induced autophagy activation.
Meat is basically composed of water, protein, lipid, minerals, and trace amounts of carbohydrate. Proteins constitute the major fraction: approximately 15-22%. The amount of lipids in skeletal muscle is highly dependent on the degree of fattening and the amount of adipose tissue, and may range from 1 to 13% of total muscle. Proteins and lipids constitute the main substrates for the action of muscle proteases and lipases, respectively. This Chapter provides a brief overview of relevant facts in the biochemistry of meat and fat.
Conclusions: VPA alters the expression of PEBP1, BHMT, MYL1, ALB and FLNC that are closely related with metabolic myopathies, myogenesis, albumin gene expression, and haemolytic anemia. On the other hand, VPA directly inhibits the betaine-dependent remethylation pathway. Taken together, VPA elicits hemorrhagic myoliposis via these action mechanisms, and RV and vit E are effective for alleviation of such adverse effects. Methodology/Principal Findings: VPA (60 mM) was applied to 36 chicken embryos at HH stage 10 (day-1.5). Resveratrol (RV) and vitamin E (vit E) (each at 0.2 and 2.0 mM) were applied simultaneously to explore the alleviation effect. The proteins in the cervical muscles of the day-1 chicks were analyzed using 2Delectrophoresis and LC/MS/MS. While the genomics associated with each specific protein alteration was examined with RT-PCR and qPCR. At earlier embryonic stage, VPA downregulated PEBP1 and BHMT genes and at the same time upregulated MYL1, ALB and FLNC genes significantly (p<0.05) without affecting PKM2 gene. Alternatively, VPA directly inhibited the folate-independent (or the betaine-dependent) remethylation pathway. These features were effectively alleviated by RV and vit E. Background: Previously, we reported that valproic acid (VPA), a common antiepileptic drug and a potent teratogenic, dowregulates RBP4 in chicken embryo model (CEM) when induced by VPA. Whether such teratogenicity is associated with more advanced proteomic and genomic alterations, we further performed this present study.
Sister chromatid cohesion (SCC), which is established during DNA replication, ensures genome stability. Establishment of SCC is inhibited in G2. However, this inhibition is relived and SCC is established as a response to DNA damage, a process known as Damage Induced Cohesion (DIC). In yeast, Chk1, which is a kinase that functions in DNA damage signal transduction, is considered an activator of SCC through DIC. Nonetheless, here we show that, unlike SCC mutations, loss of CHK1 did not increase spontaneous or damage-induced allelic recombination or aneuploidy. We suggest that Chk1 has a redundant role in the control of DIC or that DIC is redundant for maintaining genome stability.
Plant responses to abiotic stresses are controlled by a complex tier of epigenetic, transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation. We have provided evidence that the DEAD-box RNA helicases, STRESS RESPONSE SUPPRESSOR (STRS) 1 and STRS2 are negative regulators of Arabidopsis thaliana stressresponsive transcription factors. Using GFP-STRS fusion proteins, we have demonstrated that the STRSs are localized to the nucleolus and chromocenters, and are rapidly removed to the nucleoplasm upon application of various abiotic stresses. The STRSs appear to act via RNA-directed DNA methylation to suppress Arabidopsis stress responses; this repressive epigenetic mechanism is abrogated by abiotic stress eventually leading to an open chromatin structure allowing expression of stress-responsive genes.
Internal tandem duplication (ITD) mutations of the FLT3 gene (FLT3-ITD) are well known to correlate with a poor prognosis in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We previously reported that FLT3-ITD confers resistance to cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C), a key cytotoxic agent in AML treatments. In order to elucidate the detailed molecular mechanisms underlying the Ara-C resistance induced by FLT3-ITD, we performed a microarray gene expression analysis of the human leukemic cell line K562 transduced with FLT3-ITD (K562/FLT3-ITD) and identified RUNX3 as a downstream target of FLT3-ITD. The transcriptional induction of the RUNX3 expression by FLT3-ITD was noted on a Luciferase assay. The knockdown of the RUNX3 expression in the K562/FLT3-ITD cells increased the sensitivity to Ara-C, and the exogenous expression of RUNX3 per se resulted in the enhancement of Ara-C resistance in the K562 cells. A relationship between the FLT3-ITD-induced RUNX3 expression and Ara-C resistance was also observed in AML cells with an endogenous FLT3-ITD expression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that RUNX3 is a prerequisite for Ara-C resistance via FLT3-ITD signaling.
The fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, is a commonly used model organism for neurodegenerative diseases. Its major advantages include a short lifespan and its susceptibility to manipulation using sophisticated genetic techniques. Here, we report the systematic comparison of fly models of two polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases. We induced expression of the normal and mutant forms of full-length Ataxin-1 and Huntingtin exon 1 in cholinergic, dopaminergic, and motor neurons, and glial cells using cell type-specific drivers. We systematically analyzed their effects based on multiple phenotypes: eclosion rate, lifespan, motor performance, and circadian rhythms of spontaneous activity. This systematic assay system enabled us to quantitatively evaluate and compare the functional disabilities of different genotypes. The results suggest different effects of Ataxin-1 and Huntingtin on specific types of neural cells during development and in adulthood. In addition, we confirmed the therapeutic effects of LiCl and butyrate using representative models. These results support the usefulness of this assay system for screening candidate chemical compounds that modify the pathologies of polyQ diseases.
The SALK_135513 line of Arabidopsis thaliana is annotated by GenBank to have the T-DNA insertion in the fourth exon of NBR1 (At4g24690). Careful molecular analyses of the homozygous plants of SALK_135513 line indicated the place of T-DNA insertion in the fourth intron. Unexpectedly, 2 kinds of NBR1 transcripts, the wild-type and the mutated, resulting from alternative splicing events, were detected in those plants. Our findings explain the problems encountered by us with phenotypic evaluation of this line and emphasize the necessity for independent verification of the exact insertion site followed by careful expression studies when working with Arabidopsis T-DNA insertional mutants.
Amphiphilic graft copolymers were prepared from β-conglycinin-dextran conjugates hydrolyzed by trypsin at a degree of hydrolysis (DH) of 2.2%. Nanoparticles were prepared from β-conglycinin, β-conglycinin-dextran conjugates (CDC), and amphiphilic hydrolysates of β-conglycinin-dextran conjugates at DH 2.2% (CDCH) by a desolvation method. All of the nanoparticle samples exhibited spherical structures, as evidenced by dynamic light scattering, transmission electron microscopy, and small-angle X-ray scattering. The nanoparticles prepared from amphiphilic hydrolysates of β-conglycinin-dextran conjugates at DH 2.2% (CDCHN) exhibited higher interfacial pressure and dilatational modulus after long-term absorption at the oil-water interface compared with nanoparticles prepared from β-conglycinin (CN) and β-conglycinin-dextran conjugates (CDCN). This might be mainly associated with the higher surface hydrophobicity of CDCHN, which enhanced adsorption and intermolecular interactions of nanoparticles in the adsorbed layer.
The past two decades have brought an exponential increase in our understanding of the molecular drivers of cancer. Regarding gynecologic cancers, investigators now understand that the underlying drivers of any individual tumor may exhibit marked diversity even if both tumors have identical histology. This chapter explores several molecular pathways and proteins that have been shown to contribute to the pathology of significant subsets of ovarian, endometrial, cervical, and vulvar cancers. While the promise of personalized cancer medicine has yet to be fulfilled in gynecologic cancers, therapies targeting the phosphoinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways, as well as human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors and poly (adenosine) diphosphate [ADP]-ribose polymerase (PARP) protein are shown to have the potential to improve the therapeutic options for patients.
Amyloid fibers, once exclusively associated with disease, are acquiring utility as a class of biological nanomaterials. Here we introduce a method that utilizes the atomic structures of amyloid peptides, to design materials with versatile applications. As a model application, we designed amyloid fibers capable of capturing carbon dioxide from flue gas, to address the global problem of excess anthropogenic carbon dioxide. By measuring dynamic separation of carbon dioxide from nitrogen, we show that fibers with designed amino acid sequences double the carbon dioxide binding capacity of the previously reported fiber formed by VQIVYK from Tau protein. In a second application, we designed fibers that facilitate retroviral gene transfer. By measuring lentiviral transduction, we show that designed fibers exceed the efficiency of polybrene, a commonly used enhancer of transduction. The same procedures can be adapted to the design of countless other amyloid materials with a variety of properties and uses.
Variation in body composition is a popular obsession. The culturally ?ideal? body type is light on fat and heavy on muscle but the human population is collectively laying on fat. A new study finds antagonistic effects of two imprinted genes, Grb10 and Dlk1, on body composition in mice. These findings pose the question whether there is an evolutionary conflict between genes of maternal and paternal origin over the optimal proportions of body fat and lean muscle mass.
Background: The public health threats imposed by toxoplasmosis worldwide and by malaria in sub-Saharan countries are directly associated with the capacity of their related causative agents Toxoplasma and Plasmodium, respectively, to colonize and expand inside host cells. Therefore, deciphering how these two Apicomplexan protozoan parasites access their host cells has been highlighted as a priority research with the perspective of designing anti-invasive molecules to prevent diseases. Central to the mechanism of invasion for both genera is mechanical force, which is thought to be applied by the parasite at the interface between the two cells following assembly of a unique cell-cell junction but this model lacks direct evidence and has been challenged by recent genetic studies. In this work, using parasites expressing the fluorescent core component of this junction, we analyze characteristic features of the kinematics of penetration of more than 1,000 invasion events. Results: The majority of invasion events occur with a typical forward rotational progression of the parasite through a static junction into an invaginating host cell plasma membrane. However, if parasites encounter resistance and if the junction is not strongly anchored to the host cell cortex, as when parasites do not secrete the toxofilin protein and, therefore, are unable to locally remodel the cortical actin cytoskeleton, the junction travels retrogradely with the host cell membrane along the parasite surface allowing the formation of a functional vacuole. Kinetic measurements of the invasive trajectories strongly support a similar parasite driven force in both static and capped junctions, both of which lead to successful invasion. However, about 20% of toxofilin mutants fail to enter and eventually disengage from the host cell membrane while the secreted RhOptry Neck (RON2) molecules are posteriorally capped before being cleaved and released in the medium. By contrast in cells characterized by low cortex tension and high cortical actin dynamics junction capping and entry failure are drastically reduced. Conclusions: This kinematic analysis newly highlights that to invade cells parasites need to engage their motor with the junction molecular complex where force is efficiently applied only upon proper anchorage to the host cell membrane and cortex.
A spontaneous late-ripening mutant of 'Jincheng' (C. sinensis L. Osbeck) sweet orange exhibited a delay of fruit pigmentation and harvesting. In this work, we studied the processes of orange fruit ripening through the comparative analysis between the Jincheng mutant and its wild type. This study revealed that the fruit quality began to differ on 166th days after anthesis. At this stage, fruits were subjected to transcriptome analysis by RNA sequencing. 13,412 differentially expressed unigenes (DEGs) were found. Of these unigenes, 75.8% were downregulated in the wild type, suggesting that the transcription level of wild type was lower than that of the mutant during this stage. These DEGs were mainly clustered into five pathways: metabolic pathways, plant-pathogen interaction, spliceosome, biosynthesis of plant hormones and biosynthesis of phenylpropanoids. Therefore, the expression profiles of the genes that are involved in abscisic acid, sucrose, and jasmonic acid metabolism and signal transduction pathways were analyzed during the six fruit ripening stages. The results revealed the regulation mechanism of sweet orange fruit ripening metabolism in the following four aspects: First, the more mature orange fruits were, the lower the transcription levels were. Second, the expression level of PME boosted with the maturity of the citrus fruit. Therefore, the expression level of PME might represent the degree of the orange fruit ripeness. Third, the interaction of PP2C, PYR/PYL, and SnRK2 was peculiar to the orange fruit ripening process. Fourth, abscisic acid, sucrose, and jasmonic acid all took part in orange fruit ripening process and might interact with each other. These findings provide an insight into the intricate process of sweet orange fruit ripening.
. licensee BioMed Central.Introduction: Dermal vascular smooth muscle cells (DVSMCs) are important for vascular wall fibrosis in microangiopathy of systemic sclerosis (SSc). T helper 17 cell-associated cytokines, particularly interleukin-17A (IL-17A), have been demonstrated to play a role in the pathogenesis of SSc. However, the effect of IL-17A on the DVSMCs in microangiopathy of SSc has not been established. In the present study, we investigated the effect of IL-17A on the SSc patient-derived DVSMCs. Methods: DVSMCs from patients with SSc and healthy subjects were incubated using IL-17A or serum derived from patients with SSc. Subsequently, the proliferation, collagen synthesis and secretion, and migration of DVSMCs were analysed using a cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), dual-luciferase reporter assay, real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Western blot, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and transwell assay. The protein phosphorylation of signalling pathways in the process of IL-17A-mediated DVSMC activation was investigated and validated by specific signalling pathway inhibitor. Results: IL-17A and serum from patients with SSc could promote the proliferation, collagen synthesis and secretion, and migration of DVSMCs. IL-17A neutralising antibody could inhibit the IL-17A-induced activation of DVSMCs. Additionally, IL-17A induced the activation of extracellular-regulated protein kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2) in DVSMCs, and ERK1/2 inhibitor could block the IL-17A-elicited activation of DVSMCs. Conclusions: Our results suggested that IL-17A derived from patients with SSc might induce the proliferation, collagen synthesis and secretion, and migration of DVSMCs via ERK1/2 signalling pathway, raising the likelihood that IL-17A and ERK1/2 might be promising therapeutic targets for the treatment of SSc-related vasculopathy.
Immunoglobulin-like transcript (ILT) 3 and 4 are inhibitory receptors that modulate immune responses. Their expression has been reported to be affected by interferon, offering a possible mechanism by which this cytokine exerts its therapeutic effect in multiple sclerosis, a condition thought to involve excessive immune activity. To investigate this possibility, we measured expression of ILT3 and ILT4 on immune cells from multiple sclerosis patients, and in post-mortem brain tissue. We also studied the ability of interferon beta, alone or in combination with vitamin D, to induce upregulation of these receptors in vitro, and compared expression levels between interferon-treated and untreated multiple sclerosis patients. In vitro interferon beta treatment led to a robust upregulation of ILT3 and ILT4 on monocytes, and dihydroxyvitamin D3 increased expression of ILT3 but not ILT4. ILT3 was abundant in demyelinating lesions in postmortem brain, and expression on monocytes in the cerebrospinal fluid was higher than in peripheral blood, suggesting that the central nervous system milieu induces ILT3, or that ILT3 positive monocytes preferentially enter the brain. Our data are consistent with involvement of ILT3 and ILT4 in the modulation of immune responsiveness in multiple sclerosis by both interferon and vitamin D.
This Chapter describes USDA-FSIS requirements for the production of semidry- and dry-fermented sausages. In the United States, a total of nine government agencies are involved in ensuring that meat and poultry are safe and wholesome. USDA-FSIS requires that shelf-stable sausages meet specific moisture-to-protein ratio and pH requirements. The Chapter also outlines pathogen-reduction requirements and potential strategies.
Purpose: The inhibition of GSK-3β blocks mitochondrial membrane permeability transition (mMPT) for HLE-B3 cells in atmospheric oxygen. GSK-3β, as part of a multifactorial complex, also regulates nuclear levels of β-catenin, a known coordinator of cell survival and adhesion. The purpose of these studies was to demonstrate a novel, but likely disadvantageous, link between β-catenin’s influence on the expression of the pro-survival protein, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), resulting in enhanced lens epithelial cell mitochondrial protection against depolarization and nuclear β-catenin as an inducer of epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). Methods: Virally transformed human lens epithelial cells (HLE-B3) were treated with SB216763, a specific inhibitor of GSK-3β catalytic activity and XAV939, a specific β-catenin inhibitor that bars the translocation of β-catenin from cytoplasm to the nucleus. Western blot analysis was employed to detect the levels of cytoplasmic and nuclear β-catenin and phospho-β-catenin, pBcl-2 and the EMT proteins, α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), and fibronectin. ELISA was used to measure the levels of VEGF in cell culture supernatants. JC-1 analysis was performed to analyze the influence of either SB216763 or XAV939 on mitochondrial depolarization. Results: Cultured lens epithelial cells maintained in hypoxia (1% oxygen) and subsequently reintroduced into atmospheric oxygen and treated with the GSK-3β inhibitor SB216763 illustrated a marked inhibition of phosphorylation of glycogen synthase (downstream substrate of GSK-3β) and significant increase in nuclear translocation of β-catenin. The augmented nuclear β-catenin levels positively correlated with increased expression of α-SMA and fibronectin, both marker proteins indicative of EMT. The enhanced nuclear β-catenin activity also elicited increased VEGF and pBcl-2 expression, resulting in increased resistance to mitochondrial depolarization. Treatment of the cells with the β-catenin inhibitor XAV939 resulted in decreased expression of nuclear β-catenin, VEGF levels, pBcl-2, and EMT proteins, as well as increased mitochondrial depolarization. Conclusions: The data support a model whereby the onset of epithelial to mesenchymal transition may circuitously benefit from the enhanced synthesis of VEGF by setting up a potentially harmful situation whereby the resulting mesenchymal cell population may be more resistant to mitochondrial depolarization than the lens epithelial cell population from which it originated. These findings support the potential therapeutic relevance of developing strategies to undermine the progression of normal cells to mesenchymal transition without subverting cell viability.
Growth is the best visible sign of plant comfort. If plants are under stress, a difference in growth with control conditions can indicate that something is going wrong (or better). Phytohormones such as auxin, cytokinins, brassinosteroids or giberellins, are important growth regulators and their role in plant growth was extensively studied. On the other hand the role of salicylic acid (SA), a phytohormone commonly connected with plant defense responses, in plant growth is under-rated. However, studies with SA-overaccumulating mutants directly showed an influence of SA on plant growth. Recently we characterized an Arabidopsis SA-overaccumulating mutant impaired in phosphatidylinositol-4-kinases (pi4kIIIβ1β2). This mutant is dwarf. The crossing with mutants impaired in SA signaling revealed that pi4kIIIβ1β2 stunted rosette is due to high SA, while the short root length is not. This brings into evidence that upper and lower parts of the plants, even though they may share common phenotypes, are differently regulated.
Sex-possessing organisms perform sexual reproduction, in which gametes from different sexes fuse to produce offspring. In most eukaryotes, one or both sex gametes are motile, and gametes actively approach each other to fuse. However, in flowering plants, the gametes of both sexes lack motility. Two sperm cells (male gametes) that are contained in a pollen grain are recessively delivered via pollen tube elongation. After the pollen tube bursts, sperm cells are released toward the egg and central cells (female gametes) within an ovule (Fig. 1). The precise mechanism of sperm cell movement after the pollen tube bursts remains unknown. Ultimately, one sperm cell fuses with the egg cell and the other one fuses with the central cell, producing an embryo and an endosperm, respectively. Fertilization in which 2 sets of gamete fusion events occur, called double fertilization, has been known for over 100 y. The fact that each morphologically identical sperm cell precisely recognizes its fusion partner strongly suggests that an accurate gamete interaction system(s) exists in flowering plants.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Background: Despite being a fundamental biological problem the control of body size and proportions during development remains poorly understood, although it is accepted that the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) pathway has a central role in growth regulation, probably in all animals. The involvement of imprinted genes has also attracted much attention, not least because two of the earliest discovered were shown to be oppositely imprinted and antagonistic in their regulation of growth. The Igf2 gene encodes a paternally expressed ligand that promotes growth, while maternally expressed Igf2r encodes a cell surface receptor that restricts growth by sequestering Igf2 and targeting it for lysosomal degradation. There are now over 150 imprinted genes known in mammals, but no other clear examples of antagonistic gene pairs have been identified. The delta-like 1 gene (Dlk1) encodes a putative ligand that promotes fetal growth and in adults restricts adipose deposition. Conversely, Grb10 encodes an intracellular signalling adaptor protein that, when expressed from the maternal allele, acts to restrict fetal growth and is permissive for adipose deposition in adulthood. Results: Here, using knockout mice, we present genetic and physiological evidence that these two factors exert their opposite effects on growth and physiology through a common signalling pathway. The major effects are on body size (particularly growth during early life), lean:adipose proportions, glucose regulated metabolism and lipid storage in the liver. A biochemical pathway linking the two cell signalling factors remains to be defined. Conclusions: We propose that Dlk1 and Grb10 define a mammalian growth axis that is separate from the IGF pathway, yet also features an antagonistic imprinted gene pair.
; licensee BioMed Central. Background: 17β-estradiol can suppress acute lung injury (ALI) and regulate alveolar epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). However the relationship between these two functions remains unclear. This study is conducted to assess the role of ENaC and the PI3K/Akt/SGK1 signaling pathway in 17β-estradiol therapy in attenuating LPS-induced ALI. Methods: ALI was induced in C57BL/J male mice by intratracheal administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Concurrent with LPS administration, 17β-estradiol or sterile saline was administered to ALI model with or without the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor wortmannin. The lung histological changes, inflammatory mediators in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), wet/dry weight ratio (W/D) and alveolar fluid clearance (AFC) were measured 4 hours after LPS challenge in vivo. For in vitro studies, LPS-challenged MLE-12 cells were pre-incubated with or without wortmannin for 30 minutes prior to 17β-estradiol treatment. Expression of ENaC subunits was assessed by reverse transcriptase PCR, western blot, cell surface biotinylation, and immunohistochemistry. The levels of phosphorylated Akt and SGK1 in lung tissue and lung cell lines were investigated by western blot. Results: 17β-estradiol suppressed LPS-mediated ALI in mice by diminishing inflammatory mediators and enhancing AFC. 17β-estradiol promoted the expression and surface abundance of α-ENaC, and increased the levels of phosphorylated-Akt and phosphorylated-SGK1 following LPS challenge. This induction was abolished by the PI3K inhibitor wortmannin in vivo and in vitro. Conclusion: 17β-estradiol attenuates LPS-induced ALI not only by repressing inflammation, but also by reducing pulmonary edema via elevation of α-ENaC expression and membrane abundance. These effects were mediated, at least partially, via activation of the PI3K/Akt/SGK1 signaling pathway.
β amyloid peptide plays an important role in both the manifestation and progression of Alzheimer disease. It has a tendency to aggregate, forming low-molecular weight soluble oligomers, higher-molecular weight protofibrillar oligomers and insoluble fibrils. The relative importance of these single oligomeric-polymeric species, in relation to the morbidity of the disease, is currently being debated. Here we present an Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) study of Aβ(25-35) aggregation on hydrophobic dioleoylphosphatidylcholine (DOPC) and DOPC/docosahexaenoic 22:6 acid (DHA) lipid bilayers. Aβ(25-35) is the smallest fragment retaining the biological activity of the full-length peptide, whereas DOPC and DOPC/DHA lipid bilayers were selected as models of cell-membrane environments characterized by different fluidity. Our results provide evidence that in hydrophobic DOPC and DOPC/DHA lipid bilayers, Aβ(25-35) forms layered aggregates composed of mainly annular structures. The mutual interaction between annular structures and lipid surfaces end-results into a membrane solubilization. The presence of DHA as a membrane-fluidizing agent is essential to protect the membrane from damage caused by interactions with peptide aggregates; to reduces the bilayer defects where the delipidation process starts.
To understand renal functions and disease, it is important to define the molecular constituents of the various compartments of the kidney. Here, we used comparative transcriptomic analysis of all major organs and tissues in the human body, in combination with kidney tissue micro array based immunohistochemistry, to generate a comprehensive description of the kidney-specific transcriptome and proteome. A special emphasis was placed on the identification of genes and proteins that were elevated in specific kidney subcompartments. Our analysis identified close to 400 genes that had elevated expression in the kidney, as compared to the other analysed tissues, and these were further subdivided, depending on expression levels, into tissue enriched, group enriched or tissue enhanced. Immunohistochemistry allowed us to identify proteins with distinct localisation to the glomeruli (n=1), proximal tubules (n=20), distal tubules (n=9) or collecting ducts (n=8). Among the identified kidney elevated transcripts, we found several proteins not previously characterised or identified as elevated in kidney. This description of the kidney specific transcriptome and proteome provides a resource for basic and clinical research to facilitate studies to understand kidney biology and disease.
(Figure Presented) Interactions between atoms have a major influence on the chemical properties of molecular systems. While covalent interactions impose the structural integrity of molecules, noncovalent interactions govern more subtle phenomena such as protein folding, bonding or self assembly. The understanding of these types of interactions is necessary for the interpretation of many biological processes and chemical design tasks. While traditionally the electron density is analyzed to interpret the quantum chemistry of a molecular system, noncovalent interactions are characterized by low electron densities and only slight variations of them - challenging their extraction and characterization. Recently, the signed electron density and the reduced gradient, two scalar fields derived from the electron density, have drawn much attention in quantum chemistry since they enable a qualitative visualization of these interactions even in complex molecular systems and experimental measurements. In this work, we present the first combinatorial algorithm for the automated extraction and characterization of covalent and noncovalent interactions in molecular systems. The proposed algorithm is based on a joint topological analysis of the signed electron density and the reduced gradient. Combining the connectivity information of the critical points of these two scalar fields enables to visualize, enumerate, classify and investigate molecular interactions in a robust manner. Experiments on a variety of molecular systems, from simple dimers to proteins or DNA, demonstrate the ability of our technique to robustly extract these interactions and to reveal their structural relations to the atoms and bonds forming the molecules. For simple systems, our analysis corroborates the observations made by the chemists while it provides new visual and quantitative insights on chemical interactions for larger molecular systems.
; licensee BioMed Central. Ouabain (OUA) is a newly recognized hormone that is synthesized in the adrenal cortex and hypothalamus. Low doses of OUA can activate a signaling pathway by interaction with Na,K-ATPase, which is protective against a number of insults. OUA has central and peripheral anti-inflammatory effects. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), via toll-like receptor 4 activation, is a widely used model to induce systemic inflammation. This study used a low OUA dose to evaluate its effects on inflammation induced by LPS injection in rats. Methods: Adult male Wistar rats received acute intraperitoneal (ip) OUA (1.8 μg/kg) or saline 20 minutes before LPS (200 μg/kg, ip) or saline injection. Some of the animals had their femoral artery catheterized in order to assess arterial blood pressure values before and after OUA administration. Na,K-ATPase activity, cytokine mRNA levels, apoptosis-related proteins, NF-κB activation brain-derived neurotrophic factor BDNF, corticosterone and TNF-α levels were measured. Results: OUA pretreatment decreased mRNA levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and IL-1β, which are activated by LPS in the hippocampus, but with no effect on serum measures of these factors. None of these OUA effects were linked to Na,K-ATPase activity. The involvement of the inflammatory transcription factor NF-κB in the OUA effect was indicated by its prevention of LPS-induced nuclear translocation of the NF-κB subunit, RELA (p65), as well as the decreased cytosol levels of the NF-κB inhibitor, IKB, in the hippocampus. OUA pretreatment reversed the LPS-induced glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) activation and associated inflammation in the dentate gyrus. OUA also prevented LPS-induced increases in the hippocampal Bax/Bcl2 ratio suggesting an anti-apoptotic action in the brain. Conclusion: Our results suggest that a low dose of OUA has an important anti-inflammatory effect in the rat hippocampus. This effect was associated with decreased GFAP induction by LPS in the dentate gyrus, a brain area linked to adult neurogenesis.
In this study, we examined the ameliorative action of N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) against Titanium Dioxide (TiO2) induced testicular degeneration in albino rats. Adult male albino rats were given saline as a control group, TiO2 (1200 mg kg-1 BW), NAC (100 mg kg-1 BW) and co-treatment of NAC and TiO2 as a protective group for 3 months. Testicular tissues were extracted for changes in testicular gene expression and histopathology. Administration of TiO2 significantly up-regulated mRNA expression of IL-6 and TNF-α and normalized by NAC administration. TiO2 administration down regulated Glutathione-S-Transferase (GST) while increased B-cell Lymphoma2 (BcL2) expressions. Co-administration of rats by NAC together with TiO2 normalized changes in GST and BcL2 expression. Expression of steroidogenesis related genes [Androgen Binding Protein (ABR), 17β-Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenase (17β-HSD), cytochrome P450 17A (CYP17α) and aromatase] showed down regulation in TiO2 administered groups and normalized when NAC given together with TiO2. Moreover, TiO2 induced toxicity in testes that accompanied by degeneration in seminiferous tubules with congestion, oedema and cell disruption that are partially normalized by co-administration of NAC with TiO2. In conclusion, the present findings confirmed the benficial effect of NAC to prevent apoptosis in spermatogenic and sertoli cells and testicular dysfunction induced by TiO2 in male albino rats. © 2014 Science Publication.
Background: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can result in peptic ulcer disease (PUD) which is a common condition worldwide. The aim of this study was to evaluate the antiulcer properties of (1-(4-hydroxy-phenyl)-3-m-tolyl-propenone) (HPTP) chalcone in rats using indomethacin as ulcerogenic agent. Results: None of the rats showed symptoms of kidney and liver toxicity during the term of the study. Administration of HPTP had decreased the acidity, increased gastric wall mucus and flattening of gastric mucosa and reducing erosive gastric damage area. HPTP also showed dose dependent increase in SOD, GPx activity and PGE2 level and decrease MDA. H & E stain showed decreased infiltration of leucocytes with edema of submucosal layer. PAS staining showed intense uptake of magenta color of gastric wall mucus in rats fed with HPTP, and immunohistochemical staining of gastric mucosa revealed over-expression of HSP70 protein, down-expression of Bax protein and over expression of TGF-β in rats administered with HPTP. Conclusion: This study has revealed that chalcone1-(4-hydroxy-phenyl)-3-m-tolyl-propenone can serve as a safe and effective antiulcer agent as it has been proved to increase pH and gastric wall mucus, increase GPx, SOD, PGE2, and decrease MDA level, ultimately, it has also contributes towards the over-expression of HSP protein andTGF-β, and down-expression of Bax protein.
Successful execution of germination program greatly depends on the seeds’ oxidative homeostasis. We recently identified new roles for the H2O2-reducing enzyme ascorbate peroxidase 6 (APX6) in germination control and seeds’ stress tolerance. APX6 replaces APX1 as the dominant APX in dry seeds, and its loss-of-function results in reduced germination due to over accumulation of ROS and oxidative damage. Metabolic analyses in dry apx6 seeds, revealed altered homeostasis of primary metabolites including accumulation of TCA cycle metabolites, ABA and auxin, supporting a novel role for APX6 in regulating cellular metabolism. Increased sensitivity of apx6 mutants to ABA or IAA in germination assays indicated impaired perception of these signals. Relative suppression of ABI3 and ABI5 expression, and induction of ABI4, suggested the activation of a signaling route inhibiting germination in apx6 seeds that is independent of ABI3. Here we provide additional evidence linking ABI4 with ABA- and auxin-controlled inhibition of germination and suggest a hypothetical model for the role of APX6 in the regulation of the crosstalk between these hormones and ROS.
Experts and laboratories supervising food safety are faced with new challenges by globalized markets, and rapidly changing food industrial technologies and nutrition trends. One of the most important tasks of microbiological laboratories is the analysis of raw materials and products (feeds and foods) entering the food chain, fast and reliable detection and identification of the presence of pathogenic microorganisms. Detection of pathogenic microorganisms might take 5 to 8 days using standard microbiological culture methods, therefore, the emphasis of modern microbiological methods is shifting towards rapid instrumental analyses. Thanks to research in molecular biology, methodologies that can provide reliable results for a large number of samples in a short time are becoming routine laboratory methods. One of the latest representatives of alternative microbiological methodologies is mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF) and related software, with the help of which one can identify microorganisms. The acronym MALDI-TOF stands for a special mass spectrometer: MALDI (Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization) is a photoionization ion source, while TOF (Time of Flight) denotes a time-of-flight mass analyzer. Identification is based on gentically coded proteins found in microorganisms. Each microorganism has a characteristic protein profile that can be used for identification as a sort of fingerprint. This protein profile is determined during MALDI-TOF analysis, and then it is compared to the protein profiles of microorganisms found in the reference library. In this paper, I would like to present the basis of this method, its applicability for the identification of pathogenic microorganisms, and the place of this new methodology among microbiological tests.
Biochemical characterizations of food allergens are required for understanding the allergenicity of food allergens. Such studies require a relatively large amount of highly purified allergens. The level of Pru du 4 in almond is low, and its expression in a soluble form in Escherichia coli required an expression tag. An MBP tag was used to enhance its expression and solubility. Sumo was used for the first time as a peptidase recognition site. The expression tag was removed with a sumo protease, and the resulting wild-type Pru du 4 was puri fied chromatographically. The stability of the allergen was investigated with chemical denaturation. The Gibbs free energy of Pru du 4 folding-unfolding transition was determined to be 5.4 ± 0.7 kcal/mol.
The biological effects of ribonucleases (RNases), such as the control of the blood vessels growth, the toxicity towards tumour cells and antiviral activity, require a detailed explanation. One of the most intriguing properties of RNases which can contribute to their biological effects is the ability to form dimers, which facilitates efficient RNA hydrolysis and the evasion of ribonuclease inhibitor. Dimeric forms of microbial RNase binase secreted by Bacillus pumilus (former B. intermedius) have only been found in crystals to date. Our study is the first report directly confirming the existence of binase dimers in solution and under natural conditions of enzyme biosynthesis and secretion by bacilli. Using different variants of gel electrophoresis, immunoblotting, size-exclusion chromatography and mass-spectrometry, we revealed that binase is a stable natural dimer with high catalytic activity.
M. Rice et al.Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in women in the United States. Aging is a primary risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease as well as cardiovascular-related morbidity and mortality. Aging is a universal process that all humans undergo; however, research in aging is limited by cost and time constraints. Therefore, most research in aging has been done in primates and rodents; however it is unknown how well the effects of aging in rat models translate into humans. To compound the complication of aging gender has also been indicated as a risk factor for various cardiovascular diseases. This review addresses the systemic pathophysiology of the cardiovascular system associated with aging and gender for aging research with regard to the applicability of rat derived data for translational application to human aging.
Animal protein has been in the human diet from generations. Over the last few decades, the demand for animal proteins has largely increased since families moved from extreme poverty to the middle class, in addition to the increase in the world population that is expected to reach 9.2 billion by the year 2075. Both production and consumption of muscle foods subsequently evolved from small production for local markets to commercial operation for world markets. Animal muscles are converted to meat through a series of post-mortem changes after slaughter. The overall quality of muscle foods is primarily influenced by physical and biochemical modifications during the post-mortem period and the handling of live animals prior to slaughter. As muscle foods have to be processed in one way or another, prior to consumption, it will be important to understand how animal meats are produced and how their product quality is affected.
Thrombosis is generally considered harmful because it compromises the blood supply to organs. However, recent studies have suggested that thrombosis under certain circumstances plays a major physiological role in early immune defense against invading pathogens. This defensive role of thrombosis is now referred to as immunothrombosis. Activated monocytes and neutrophils are two major inducers of immunothrombosis. Monocytes and neutrophils are activated when they detect pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). Detection of PAMPs and DAMPs triggers tissue factor expression on monocytes and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) release by neutrophils, promoting immunothrombosis. Although tissue factor-mediated and NET-mediated immunothrombosis plays a role in early host defense against bacterial dissemination, uncontrolled immunothrombosis may lead to disseminated intravascular coagulation.
Background: Human Langerhans cells (LCs) reside in foreskin and vaginal mucosa and are the first immune cells to interact with HIV-1 during sexual transmission. LCs capture HIV-1 through the C-type lectin receptor langerin, which routes the virus into Birbeck granules (BGs), thereby preventing HIV-1 infection. BGs are langerin-positive organelles exclusively present in LCs, however, their origin and function are unknown. Results: Here, we not only show that langerin and caveolin-1 co-localize at the cell membrane and in vesicles but also that BGs are langerin/caveolin-1-positive vesicles are linked to the lysosomal degradation pathway in LCs. Moreover, inhibition of caveolar endocytosis in primary LCs abrogated HIV-1 sequestering into langerin+ caveolar structures. Notably, both inhibition of caveolar uptake and silencing of caveolar structure protein caveolin-1 resulted in increased HIV-1 integration and subsequent infection. In contrast, inhibition of clathrin-mediated endocytosis did not affect HIV-1 integration, even though HIV-1 uptake was decreased, suggesting that clathrin-mediated endocytosis is not involved in HIV-1 restriction in LCs. Conclusions: Thus, our data strongly indicate that BGs belong to the caveolar endocytosis pathway and that caveolin-1 mediated HIV-1 uptake is an intrinsic restriction mechanism present in human LCs that prevents HIV-1 infection. Harnessing this particular internalization pathway has the potential to facilitate strategies to combat HIV-1 transmission.
Objective: To investigate the effects of Schistosoma japonicum infection on selective activation of macrophages and insulin resistance in liver tissues of mice with high-fat diet induced obesity and the possible mechanism. Methods: Thirty-six male C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into 3 groups including normal control group (NC group, n=12), high-fat diet feeding group (HF group, n=12) and high-fat diet feeding with Schistosoma japonicum infection group (HSj group, n=12). Specimens were collected 6 and 12 weeks after high-fat diet feeding. The levels of fasting blood glucose (FBG), fasting plasma insulin (FINS) and homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR) were detected. The expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6), arginase-1 (Arg-1) and found in inflammatory zone-1 (Fizz-1) at mRNA and protein levels were detected by semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry, respectively. Results The mice from HF group showed higher levels of HOMA-IR than those form NC group and HSj group by the end of 6 and 12 weeks after infection (P < 0.05). The levels of HOMA-IR in mice from HF group were increased by the end of week 12 after infection as compared with those at week 6 (P > 0.05). The levels of IL-6 in mice from both HF group and HSj group were higher than those from NC group by the end of week 6 after infection (P < 0.05). Higher levels of IL-6 were detected in mice from HF group as compared with those from HSj group and NC group by the end of week 12 after infection (P < 0.05). The expression of Arg-1 and Fizz-1 in mice form HF group were lower than those from NC group by the end of 6 and 12 weeks after infection (P < 0.05). Arg-1 was highly expressed in mice form HSj group, followed by those from NC and HF groups 12 weeks after infection. The expression of Fizz-1 in mice from HSj group was the highest among the three groups by the end of week 6 and 12 after infection (P < 0.05). Conclusion: The proinflammatory effects on mice with diet induced obesity were induced during acute infection of Schistosoma japonicum cercariae (6 weeks). The chronic infection of Schistosoma ja-ponicum cercariae (12 weeks) might be helpful in reversing hepatic insulin resistance in mice with diet induced obesity by changing the polarity of macrophages in liver tissues.
Background: Platelets are anuclear cell fragments derived from bone marrow megakaryocytes that safeguard vascular integrity by forming thrombi at sites of vascular injury. Although the early events of thrombus formation-platelet adhesion and aggregation-have been intensively studied, less is known about the mechanisms and receptors that stabilize platelet-platelet interactions once a thrombus has formed. One receptor that has been implicated in this process is the signaling lymphocyte activation molecule (SLAM) family member CD84, which can undergo homophilic interactions and becomes phosphorylated upon platelet aggregation. Objective: The role of CD84 in platelet physiology and thrombus formation was investigated in CD84-deficient mice. Methods and Results: We generated CD84-deficient mice and analyzed their platelets in vitro and in vivo. Cd84<sup>-/-</sup> platelets exhibited normal activation and aggregation responses to classical platelet agonists. Furthermore, CD84 deficiency did not affect integrin-mediated clot retraction and spreading of activated platelets on fibrinogen. Notably, also the formation of stable three-dimensional thrombi on collagen-coated surfaces under flow ex vivo was unaltered in the blood of Cd84<sup>-/-</sup> mice. In vivo, Cd84<sup>-/-</sup> mice exhibited unaltered hemostatic function and arterial thrombus formation. Conclusion: These results show that CD84 is dispensable for thrombus formation and stabilization, indicating that its deficiency may be functionally compensated by other receptors or that it may be important for platelet functions different from platelet-platelet interactions.
Inducing apoptosis to susceptible cells is the major mechanism of most cytotoxic anticancer drugs in current use. Cinnamomum kanehirai Hayata (Lauraceae), a unique and native tree of Taiwan, is the major host for the medicinal fungus Antrodia cinnamomea which exhibits anti-cancer activity. Because of the scarcity of A. cinnamomea, C. kanehirai Hayata instead, is used as fork medicine in liver cancer. Here we observed the C. kanehirai Hayata ethanol extract could inhibit the cellular viability of both HepG2 and HA22T/VGH human hepatoma cell lines in a dose- and time-dependent manner. We found the mode of cell death was apoptosis according to cell morphological changes by Liu’s stain, oligonucleosomal DNA fragmentation by gel electrophoresis, externalization of phosphotidyl serine by detecting Annexin V and hypoploid population by cell cycle analysis. Our results showed that the extracts caused cleavage of caspase-3 and increased enzyme activity of caspase-8 and caspase-9. Caspase 3 inhibitor partially reversed the viability inhibition by the extract. Furthermore, the up-regulation of Bax and down-regulation of Bcl-2 were also noted by the extract treatment. In conclusion, C. kanehirai Hayata ethanol extract induced intrinsic pathway of apoptosis through caspase-3 cascade in human hepatoma HA22T/VGH and HepG2 cells, which might shed new light on hepatoma therapy.
Green tea presents catechins as its major components and it has a potential antioxidant activity. Cyclophosmamide (CP) is an antineoplastic and immunosuppressive agent, known to reduce fertility. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of green tea infusion on cyclophosphamide-induced damage in male mice reproductive system. Mice received green tea infusion (250. mg/kg) or vehicle by gavage for 14 days. Saline or CP were injected intraperitoneally at a single dose (100. mg/kg) at the 14th day. Animals were euthanized 24. h after CP administration and testes and epididymis were removed for biochemical analysis and sperm evaluation. Catechins concentration in green tea infusion was evaluated by HPLC. CP increased lipid peroxidation, DNA damage and superoxide dismutase activity whereas sperm concentration, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and 17β-hydroxysteroid (17β-HSD) dehydrogenase activities were reduced in both tissues tested. Catalase activity and protein carbonyl levels were changed only in testes, after CP administration. Green tea pre-treatment reduced significantly lipid peroxidation, protein carbonylation, DNA damage and restored GPx and GST activity in testes. In epididymis, therapy significantly increased sperm concentration and restored GPx and 17β-HSD activity. Green tea improves CP-induced damage on reproductive system, probably due to their high catechins content.
Gaucher disease is a lysosomal storage disease caused by defective activity of acid β-glucosidase (GCase), which leads to the accumulation of its major substrates, glucosylceramide (GlcCer) and glucosylsphingosine (GlcSph) in many cells. To modulate cellular substrate concentration in viable mouse models of Gaucher disease (Gba1 mutants), a novel mouse model was created with enhanced glycosphingolipid biosynthesis. This was accomplished by crossbreeding Gba1 mutant mice with mice expressing a transgene (GCStg) containing the mouse glucosylceramide synthase (GCS, Ugcg) cDNA driven by the ROSA promoter, yielding GCStg/Gba1 mice. The GCStg rescued Ugcg null mice from embryonic lethality. GCStg/Gba1 mice showed 2-3 fold increases in tissue GCS activity as well as accelerated GlcCer accumulation and the appearance of lipidladen CD68 positive macrophages in visceral organs. Although GlcCer/GlcSph concentrations were elevated in the brain, there was no neurodegenerative phenotype up to 1 yr of age conceivably due to the greater residual GCase hydrolytic activity in the brains than in the visceral tissues of 9V/null mice. These studies provide 'proof of principle' for threshold substrate flux that modifies phenotypic development in Gaucher disease and other lysosomal storage diseases.
Objective: Because reduction of the microtubule-associated protein Tau has beneficial effects in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease and epilepsy, we wanted to determine whether this strategy can also improve the outcome of mild traumatic brain injury (TBI). Methods: We adapted a mild frontal impact model of TBI for wildtype C57Bl/6J mice and characterized the behavioral deficits it causes in these animals. The Barnes maze, Y maze, contextual and cued fear conditioning, elevated plus maze, open field, balance beam, and forced swim test were used to assess different behavioral functions. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI, 7 Tesla) and histological analysis of brain sections were used to look for neuropathological alterations. We also compared the functional effects of this TBI model and of controlled cortical impact in mice with two, one or no Tau alleles. Results: Repeated (2-hit), but not single (1-hit), mild frontal impact impaired spatial learning and memory in wildtype mice as determined by testing of mice in the Barnes maze one month after the injury. Locomotor activity, anxiety, depression and fear related behaviors did not differ between injured and sham-injured mice. MRI imaging did not reveal focal injury or mass lesions shortly after the injury. Complete ablation or partial reduction of tau prevented deficits in spatial learning and memory after repeated mild frontal impact. Complete tau ablation also showed a trend towards protection after a single controlled cortical impact. Complete or partial reduction of tau also reduced the level of axonopathy in the corpus callosum after repeated mild frontal impact.
Enzyme-catalyzed production of biodiesel is the object of extensive research due to the global shortage of fossil fuels and increased environmental concerns. Herein we report the preparation and main characteristics of a novel biocatalyst consisting of Cross-Linked Enzyme Aggregates (CLEAs) of Candida antarctica lipase B (CALB) which are covalently bound to magnetic nanoparticles, and tackle its use for the synthesis of biodiesel from non-edible vegetable and waste frying oils. For this purpose, insolubilized CALB was covalently cross-linked to magnetic nanoparticles of magnetite which the surface was functionalized with -NH<inf>2</inf> groups. The resulting biocatalyst combines the relevant catalytic properties of CLEAs (as great stability and feasibility for their reutilization) and the magnetic character, and thus the final product (mCLEAs) are superparamagnetic particles of a robust catalyst which is more stable than the free enzyme, easily recoverable from the reaction medium and reusable for new catalytic cycles. We have studied the main properties of this biocatalyst and we have assessed its utility to catalyze transesterification reactions to obtain biodiesel from non-edible vegetable oils including unrefined soybean, jatropha and cameline, as well as waste frying oil. Using 1% mCLEAs (w/w of oil) conversions near 80% were routinely obtained at 30°C after 24 h of reaction, this value rising to 92% after 72 h. Moreover, the magnetic biocatalyst can be easily recovered from the reaction mixture and reused for at least ten consecutive cycles of 24 h without apparent loss of activity. The obtained results suggest that mCLEAs prepared from CALB can become a powerful biocatalyst for application at industrial scale with better performance than those currently available.
Background: Zinc is an essential trace element in organisms, which serves as a cofactor for hundreds of enzymes that are involved in many pivotal biological processes including growth, development, reproduction and immunity. Therefore, the homeostasis of zinc in the cell is fundamental. The zinc transporter gene family is a large gene family that encodes proteins which regulate the movement of zinc across cellular and intracellular membranes. However, studies on teleost zinc transporters are mainly limited to model species.Methodology/Principal Findings: We identified a set of 37 zinc transporters in common carp genome, including 17 from SLC30 family (ZnT), and 20 from SLC39 family (ZIP). Phylogenetic and syntenic analysis revealed that most of the zinc transporters are highly conserved, though recent gene duplication and gene losses do exist. Through examining the copy number of zinc transporter genes across several vertebrate genomes, thirteen zinc transporters in common carp are found to have undergone the gene duplications, including SLC30A1, SLC30A2, SLC30A5, SLC30A7, SLC30A9, SLC30A10, SLC39A1, SLC39A3, SLC39A4, SLC39A5, SLC39A6, SLC39A7 and SLC39A9. The expression patterns of all zinc transporters were established in various tissues, including blood, brain, gill, heart, intestine, liver, muscle, skin, spleen and kidney, and showed that most of the zinc transporters were ubiquitously expressed, indicating the critical role of zinc transporters in common carp.Conclusions: To some extent, examination of gene families with detailed phylogenetic or orthology analysis could verify the authenticity and accuracy of assembly and annotation of the recently published common carp whole genome sequences. The gene families are also considered as a unique source for evolutionary studies. Moreover, the whole set of common carp zinc transporters provides an important genomic resource for future biochemical, toxicological and physiological studies of zinc in teleost.
After replication in the cytoplasm, viruses spread from the infected cell into the neighboring cells through plasmodesmata, membranous channels embedded by the cell wall. As obligate parasites, viruses have acquired the ability to utilize host factors that unwillingly cooperate for the viral infection process. For example, the viral movement proteins (MP) interacts with the host pectin methylesterase (PME) and both proteins cooperate to sustain the viral spread. However, how and where PMEs interact with MPs and how the PME/MP complexes favor the viral translocation is not well understood. Recently, we demonstrated that the overexpression of PME inhibitors (PMEIs) in tobacco and Arabidopsis plants limits the movement of Tobacco mosaic virus and Turnip vein clearing virus and reduces plant susceptibility to these viruses. Here we discuss how overexpression of PMEI may reduce tobamovirus spreading.
RNA interference (RNAi) in insects is a gene regulatory process that also plays a vital role in the maintenance and in the regulation of host defenses against invading viruses. Small RNAs determine the specificity of the RNAi through precise recognition of their targets. These small RNAs in insects comprise small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), micro RNAs (miRNAs) and Piwi interacting RNAs (piRNAs) of various lengths. In this review, we have explored different forms of the RNAi inducers that are presently in use, and their applications for an effective and efficient fundamental and practical RNAi research with insects. Further, we reviewed trends in next generation sequencing (NGS) technologies and their importance for insect RNAi, including the identification of novel insect targets as well as insect viruses. Here we also describe a rapidly emerging trend of using plant viruses to deliver the RNAi inducer molecules into insects for an efficient RNAi response.
Amyloid fibrils are ubiquitous proteinaceous aggregates occurring in vivo and in vitro, with an invariant structural fingerprint at the molecular length scale. However, interpretation of their mesoscopic architectures is complicated by diverse observable polymorphic states. We here present a constitutive model for amyloid fibrils based on the minimization of the total energy per fibril. The model is benchmarked on real amyloid fibrils studied by atomic force microscopy. We use multistranded β-lactoglobulin amyloid fibrils as a model system exhibiting a rich polymorphism. The constitutive model quantitatively recapitulates the main mesoscopic topological features of amyloid fibrils, that is, the evolution of fibril periodicity as a function of the ionic strength of the solution and of the fibril width. A universal mesoscopic structural signature of the fibrils emerges from this picture, predicting a general, parameter-free law for the periodicity of the fibrils, that depends solely on the number of protofilaments per fibril. These predictions are validated experimentally and conclusively highlight the role of competing electrostatic and elastic contributions as the main players in the establishment of amyloid fibrils structure.
Cattle husbandry is a major contributor to atmospheric methane, which is considered as an important greenhouse gas. Moreover, the generation of methane in the intestine of domestic ruminants by methanogenic bacteria is a drag on feed efficacy. Studies on methanogenesis have typically implied model organisms that are, however, not relevant in the ruminant gut. This paper shows that methyl-CoM reductase catalyzing the final step of methanogenesis in Methanobrevibacter ruminantium, a major participant in methane production by cattle, is inhibited by 2-bromoethanesulfonate, a compound often used as a model in animal agriculture, with an apparent IC50 of 0.4 ± 0.04 μM.
Sunflower seedlings subjected to 120 mM NaCl stress exhibit high total peroxidase activity, differential expression of its isoforms and accumulation of lipid hydroperoxides. This coincides with high specific activity of phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (PHGPX) in the 10,000g supernatant from the homogenates of 2–6 d old seedling cotyledons. An upregulation of PHGPX activity by NaCl is evident from Western blot analysis. Confocal laser scanning microscopic (CLSM) analysis of sections of cotyledons incubated with anti-GPX4 (PHGPX) antibody highlights an enhanced cytosolic accumulation of PHGPX, particularly around the secretory canals. Present work, thus, highlights sensing of NaCl stress in sunflower seedlings in relation with lipid hydroperoxide accumulation and its scavenging through an upregulation of PHGPX activity in the cotyledons.
Thermophilic endo-polygalacturonases with high catalytic efficiency are of great interest in the food and feed industries. This study identified an endo-polygalacturonase gene (pg7fn) of glycoside hydrolase family 28 in the thermophilic fungus Thielavia arenaria XZ7. Recombinant PG7fn produced in Pichia pastoris is distinguished from other enzyme counterparts by its high functional temperature (60°C) and specific activity (34382 ± 351 U/mg toward polygalacturonic acid). The enzyme exhibited good pH stability (pH 3.0-8.0) and resistance to pepsin and trypsin digestion and had a significant effect on disaggregation of soybean meal. Addition of 1 U/g PG7fn increased the pectin bioavailability by 19.33%. The excellent properties described above make PG7fn valuable for applications in the food and feed industries. Furthermore, a comparative study showed that N-glycosylation improved the thermostability and catalytic efficiency of PG7fn.
; licensee BioMed Central.Background: The large airways of the lungs (trachea and bronchi) are lined with a pseudostratified mucociliary epithelium, which is maintained by stem cells/progenitors within the basal cell compartment. Alterations in basal cell behavior can contribute to large airway diseases including squamous cell carcinomas (SQCCs). Basal cells have traditionally been thought of as a uniform population defined by basolateral position, cuboidal cell shape, and expression of pan-basal cell lineage markers like KRT5 and TP63. While some evidence suggests that basal cells are not all functionally equivalent, few heterogeneously expressed markers have been identified to purify and study subpopulations. In addition, few signaling pathways have been identified that regulate their cell behavior. The goals of this work were to investigate tracheal basal cell diversity and to identify new signaling pathways that regulate basal cell behavior. Methods: We used flow cytometry (FACS) to profile cell surface marker expression at a single cell level in primary human tracheal basal cell cultures that maintain stem cell/progenitor activity. FACS results were validated with tissue staining, in silico comparisons with normal basal cell and lung cancer datasets, and an in vitro proliferation assay. Results: We identified 105 surface markers, with 47 markers identifying potential subpopulations. These subpopulations generally fell into more (~ > 13%) or less abundant (~ < 6%) groups. Microarray gene expression profiling supported the heterogeneous expression of these markers in the total population, and immunostaining of large airway tissue suggested that some of these markers are relevant in vivo. 24 markers were enriched in lung SQCCs relative to adenocarcinomas, with four markers having prognostic significance in SQCCs. We also identified 33 signaling receptors, including the MST1R/RON growth factor receptor, whose ligand MST1/MSP was mitogenic for basal cells. Conclusion: This work provides the largest description to date of molecular diversity among human large airway basal cells. Furthermore, these markers can be used to further study basal cell function in repair and disease, and may aid in the classification and study of SQCCs.
Background: Acquisition of the M1 or M2 phenotypes by microglia has been shown to occur during the development of pathological conditions, with M1 activation being widely involved in neurotoxicity in relation with the anatomical localization and the reactivity of subtypes of microglia cells. On the contrary, little is known on the ability of microglia to undergo M2 polarization by interleukin-4 (IL4), the typical M2a polarization signal for peripheral macrophages. Methods: Recombinant mouse IL4 was injected in the third cerebral ventricle of mice to induce brain alternative polarization. The mRNA levels of Fizz1, Arg1, and Ym1 genes, known to be up-regulated by IL4 in peripheral macrophages, together with additional polarization markers, were evaluated in the striatum and frontal cortex at different time intervals after central administration of IL4; in parallel, M2a protein expression was evaluated in tissue extracts and at the cellular level. Results: Our results show that the potency and temporal profile of IL4-mediated M2a gene induction vary depending on the gene analyzed and according to the specific brain area analyzed, with the striatum showing a reduced M2a response compared with the frontal cortex, as further substantiated by assays of polarization protein levels. Of notice, Fizz1 mRNA induction reached 100-fold level, underscoring the potency of this specific IL4 signaling pathway in the brain. In addition, immunochemistry assays demonstrated the localization of the M2 response specifically to microglia cells and, more interestingly, the existence of a subpopulation of microglia cells amenable to undergoing M2a polarization in the healthy mouse brain. Conclusions: These results show that the responsiveness of brain macrophages to centrally administered IL4 may vary depending on the gene and brain area analyzed, and that M2a polarization can be ascribed to a subpopulation of IL4-responsive microglia cells. The biochemical pathways that enable microglia to undergo M2a activation represent key aspects for understanding the physiopathology of neuroinflammation and for developing novel therapeutic and diagnostic agents.
Infection by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a life-threatening condition, and formation of biofilms can lead to treatment failure in a clinical setting. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the in vivo bactericidal effects of a combination of vancomycin (VAN) and fosfomycin (FOS) against MRSA in a rat carboxymethyl cellulose-pouch biofilm model. The results of the time-kill assay showed that the combination therapy was capable of killing at low minimal inhibitory concentrations (MIC) (1/2 × MIC VAN +1 × MIC FOS and 1 × MIC VAN + 1 × MIC FOS). In the in vivo study, a synergistically bactericidal effect was observed when using the combination therapy on MRSA embedded in the mature biofilm model. In comparison with the untreated control group and the groups receiving either VAN or FOS alone, the rats treated with combination therapy had lower MRSA colony counts in exudates from the pouch, lower white blood cell and neutrophil counts, and C-reactive protein (CRP) in peripheral blood. Furthermore, histological analysis of the pouch wall indicated combination therapy resulted in disappearance of biofilm-like structures, marked decrease in necrosis, and formation of granular tissue. In conclusion, the combination of VAN with FOS had a synergistic bactericidal effect on chronic MRSA infection embedded in biofilm, providing an alternative approach to treating this condition.
; licensee BioMed Central. Background: The is a collaboration between 8 Dutch University Medical Centers in which clinical data and biomaterials from patients suffering from chronic diseases (so called "Pearls") are collected according to harmonized protocols. The Pearl Neurodegenerative Diseases focuses on the role of biomarkers in the early diagnosis, differential diagnosis and in monitoring the course of neurodegenerative diseases, in particular Alzheimer's disease. Methods: The Pearl Neurodegenerative Diseases is a 3-year follow-up study of patients referred to a memory clinic with cognitive complaints. At baseline, all patients are subjected to a standardized examination, including clinical data and biobank materials, e.g. blood samples, MRI and cerebrospinal fluid. At present, in total more than 1000 patients have been included, of which cerebrospinal fluid and DNA samples are available of 211 and 661 patients, respectively. First descriptives of a subsample of the data (n = 665) shows that patients are diagnosed with dementia (45%), mild cognitive impairment (31%), and subjective memory complaints (24%). Discussion: The Pearl Neurodegenerative Diseases is an ongoing large network collecting clinical data and biomaterials of more than 1000 patients with cognitive impairments. The project has started with data analyses of the baseline characteristics and biomarkers, which will be the starting point of future specific research questions that can be answered by this unique dataset.
Background: Variations at DEPDC5 gene have been recently reported as genetic markers associated with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression in chronic HCV-infected patients. This study was conducted to assess the association of DEPDC5 variants with advanced liver cirrhosis and HCC development among chronic HCV-infected patients in Saudi Arabian population. Methods: Six-hundred and one HCV-infected patients were genotyped for DEPDC5 polymorphisms (rs1012068 and rs5998152), in comparison with 592 non-infected healthy control subjects. The allelic frequency and genotype distribution of both DEPDC5 polymorphisms were determined followed by haplotype frequency estimation and multiple logistic regression analysis. Results: The frequency of the risk alleles of both rs1012068 and rs5998152 was shown to be more in healthy control subjects than in patients (p = 0.0001, OR = 0.704, CI = 0.591-0.839; p = 0.002, OR = 0.761, CI = 0. 0.639-0.907, respectively). Also, our results revealed that GT for SNP rs1012068 (OR =1.715; 95% CI 1.132-2.597; p = 0.0104) and CT for SNP rs5998152 (OR = 1.932; 95% CI 1.276-2.925; p = 0.0017) showed significant association with development of cirrhosis compared with the GG and CC genotypes, respectively. The data also revealed that subjects with the T allele of both SNPs appeared to have a lower susceptibility to HCV-related cirrhosis/HCC than those with the G allele of rs1012068 (p = 0.038, OR = 1.353, 95 % CI 1.017-1.800) and C allele of rs5998152 (p = 0.043, OR = 1.342, 95 % CI 1.010-1.784). Haplotype analysis showed that a combination of T-T alleles of rs1012068 and rs5998152 was significantly associated with liver cirrhosis (frequency = 71.3% and p = 0.027) and with cirrhosis/HCC (frequency = 71.4% and P = 0.045). Also, multiple logistic regression analysis showed that rs5998152 (OR = 2.844, 95% CI 1.333-6.069 and p = 0.007), rs1012068 (OR = 2.793, 95% CI 1.316-5.928 and p = 0.010), age (OR = 1.029, 95% CI 1.001-1.057 and p = 0.041) and HCV genotypes (OR = 0.247, 95% CI 0.097-0.630 and p = 0.003) were independently associated with chronicity of HCV infection. Conclusion: Genetic variations in DEPDC5 gene region may influence HCV-associated liver cirrhosis and/or HCC development.
Purpose: To characterize the spectrum of CYP4V2 gene mutations in 92 unrelated Chinese probands with Bietti’s crystalline dystrophy (BCD) and to describe the molecular and clinical characteristics of four novel CYP4V2 mutations associated with BCD.Methods: All study participants underwent a complete ophthalmological examination. Mutational screening of CYP4V2 coding regions and flanking intron sequences was examined via directional Sanger sequencing, with allele separation confirmed by screening other family members. Subsequent in silico analysis of the mutational consequence on protein function was undertaken, with the impact of the novel mutation on pre-mRNA splicing examined via RT–PCR.Results: Fifteen disease-causing variants were identified in 92 probands with BCD, including four novel mutations and eleven previously reported mutations. The most prevalent mutation was c.802_810del17insGC, which was detected in 69 unrelated families, with an allele frequency of 52.7% (97/184). Homozygosity was revealed in 35 unrelated families, and compound heterozygosity was observed in 43 subjects. Four patients harbored four novel variants, with these mutations cosegregated within all affected individuals and were not found in unaffected family members and 100 unrelated controls. Transcriptional analysis of a novel splice mutation revealed altered RNA splicing. In silico analysis predicted that the missense variant, p.Tyr343Asp, disrupted the CYP4V2 surface electrostatic potential distribution and spatial conformation. Among the patients with four novel mutations, genotype did not always correlate with age at onset, disease course, or electroretinogram (ERG) changes, with phenotypic variations even noted within the same genotype.Conclusions: The c.802_810del17insCG mutation was the most common mutation in the 92 Chinese probands with BCD examined. Four novel mutations were identified, contributing to the spectrum of CYP4V2 mutations associated with BCD, with no clear link established between disease phenotype and genotype.
Background: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been proposed as autologous therapy for inflammatory diseases in neonates. MSCs from umbilical cord Wharton’s jelly (WJ-MSCs) are accessible, with high proliferative capacity. The effects of WJ-MSCs on neutrophil activity in neonates are not known. We compared the effects of WJ-MSCs on apoptosis and the expression of inflammatory, oxidant, and antioxidant mediators in adult and neonatal neutrophils. Methods: WJ-MSCs were isolated, and their purity and function were confirmed by flow cytometry. Neutrophils were isolated from cord and adult blood by density centrifugation. The effects of neutrophil/WJ-MSC co-culture on apoptosis and gene and protein expression were measured. Results: WJ-MSCs suppressed neutrophil apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. WJ-MSCs decreased gene expression of NADPH oxidase-1 in both adult and neonatal neutrophils, but decreased heme oxygenase-1 and vascular endothelial growth factor and increased catalase and cyclooxygenase-2 in the presence of lipopolysaccharide only in adult cells. Similarly, generation of interleukin-8 was suppressed in adult but not neonatal neutrophils. Thus, WJ-MSCs dampened oxidative, vascular, and inflammatory activity by adult neutrophils, but neonatal neutrophils were less responsive. Conversely, Toll-like receptor-4, and cyclooxygenase-2 were upregulated in WJ-MSCs only in the presence of adult neutrophils, suggesting an inflammatory MSC phenotype that is not induced by neonatal neutrophils. Conclusion: Whereas WJ-MSCs altered gene expression in adult neutrophils in ways suggesting anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects, these responses were attenuated in neonatal cells. In contrast, inflammatory gene expression in WJ-MSCs was increased in the presence of adult but not neonatal neutrophils. These effects should be considered in clinical trial design before WJ-MSC-based therapy is used in infants.
Axial Cu-S(Met) bonds in electron transfer (ET) active sites are generally found to lower their reduction potentials. An axial S(Met) bond is also present in cytochrome c (cyt c) and is generally thought to increase the reduction potential. The highly covalent nature of the porphyrin environment in heme proteins precludes using many spectroscopic approaches to directly study the Fe site to experimentally quantify this bond. Alternatively, L-edge X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) enables one to directly focus on the 3d-orbitals in a highly covalent environment and has previously been successfully applied to porphyrin model complexes. However, this technique cannot be extended to metalloproteins in solution. Here, we use metal K-edge XAS to obtain L-edge like data through 1s2p resonance inelastic X-ray scattering (RIXS). It has been applied here to a bis-imidazole porphyrin model complex and cyt c. The RIXS data on the model complex are directly correlated to L-edge XAS data to develop the complementary nature of these two spectroscopic methods. Comparison between the bis-imidazole model complex and cyt c in ferrous and ferric oxidation states show quantitative differences that reflect differences in axial ligand covalency. The data reveal an increased covalency for the S(Met) relative to N(His) axial ligand and a higher degree of covalency for the ferric states relative to the ferrous states. These results are reproduced by DFT calculations, which are used to evaluate the thermodynamics of the Fe-S(Met) bond and its dependence on redox state. These results provide insight into a number of previous chemical and physical results on cyt c.
Peptides released from food proteins may display biological activity and are known to have regulatory and modulatory functions in humans and can be used as nutraceuticals and functional food ingredients for human health promotion and disease risk reduction. Therefore, interest in identification and characterization of bioactive peptides from plant and animal sources has intensified in the past couple of decades. Depending on their structural properties, bioactive peptides possess different functionalities, such as antihypertensive, antioxidant, anticancer, hypocholesterolemic, antimicrobial, and immunomodulatory effects, and hence are considered to be multifunctional. Based on the most available literature, this contribution presents a comprehensive account of advances in bioactive peptides and their activities, sources, technological properties, applications, bioavailability, and safety issues.
Introduction: Recently, we could show that angiotensin II, the reactive peptide of the blood pressure-regulating renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system, causes the formation of reactive oxygen species and DNA damage in kidneys and hearts of hypertensive mice. To further investigate on the one hand the mechanism of DNA damage caused by angiotensin II, and on the other hand possible intervention strategies against end-organ damage, the effects of substances interfering with the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system on angiotensin II-induced genomic damage were studied. Methods: In C57BL/6-mice, hypertension was induced by infusion of 600 ng/kg • min angiotensin II. The animals were additionally treated with the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker candesartan, the mineralocorticoid receptor blocker eplerenone and the antioxidant tempol. DNA damage and the activation of transcription factors were studied by immunohistochemistry and protein expression analysis. Results: Administration of angiotensin II led to a significant increase of blood pressure, decreased only by candesartan. In kidneys and hearts of angiotensin II-treated animals, significant oxidative stress could be detected (1.5-fold over control). The redox-sensitive transcription factors Nrf2 and NF-κB were activated in the kidney by angiotensin II-treatment (4- and 3-fold over control, respectively) and reduced by all interventions. In kidneys and hearts an increase of DNA damage (3- and 2-fold over control, respectively) and of DNA repair (3-fold over control) was found. These effects were ameliorated by all interventions in both organs. Consistently, candesartan and tempol were more effective than eplerenone. Conclusion: Angiotensin II-induced DNA damage is caused by angiotensin II type 1 receptor-mediated formation of oxidative stress in vivo. The angiotensin II-mediated physiological increase of aldosterone adds to the DNA-damaging effects. Blocking angiotensin II and mineralocorticoid receptors therefore has beneficial effects on end-organ damage independent of blood pressure normalization.
Skeletal metastases are an incurable complication afflicting the majority of patients who die from advanced breast cancer. They are most often osteolytic, characterized by net bone destruction and suppressed new bone formation. Life expectancy from first diagnosis of breast cancer bone metastases is several years, during which time skeletalrelated events - including pain, fracture, hypercalcemia, and spinal cord compression - significantly degrade quality of life. The bone marrow niche can also confer hormonal and chemo-resistance. Most treatments for skeletal metastases target bone-destroying osteoclasts and are palliative. Recent results from the Breast cancer trials of Oral Everolimus-2 trial suggest that agents such as the mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor everolimus may have efficacy against breast cancer bone metastases in part via stimulating osteoblasts as well as by inhibiting tumor growth. Selective estrogen receptor modulators similarly inhibit growth of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancers while having positive effects on the skeleton. This review discusses the future role of bone-anabolic agents for the specific treatment of osteolytic breast cancer metastases. Agents with both anti-tumor and bone-anabolic actions have been tested in the setting of multiple myeloma, a hematological malignancy that causes severe osteolytic bone loss and suppression of osteoblastic new bone formation. Stimulation of osteoblast activity inhibits multiple myeloma growth - a strategy that might decrease breast cancer burden in osteolytic bone metastases. Proteasome inhibitors (bortezomib and carfilzomib) inhibit the growth of myeloma directly and are anabolic for bone. Drugs with limited anti-tumor activity but which are anabolic for bone include intermittent parathyroid hormone and antibodies that neutralize the WNT inhibitors DKK1 and sclerostin, as well as the activin A blocker sotatercept and the osteoporosis drug strontium ranelate. Transforming growth factor-beta inhibitors have little tumor antiproliferative activity but block breast cancer production of osteolytic factors and are also anabolic for bone. Some of these treatments are already in clinical trials. This review provides an overview of agents with bone-anabolic properties, which may have utility in the treatment of breast cancer metastatic to the skeleton.
The development of modern analytical technologies linked to epidemiological studies and investigations in recent decades into the safety aspects of food components have revealed that some toxic compounds may be present or generated in certain types of meat processing. This is the case with N-nitrosamines when using nitrite as a preservative under certain conditions, the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons generated in certain smoking processes, oxidation of lipids and proteins, and other products that may be present in the raw materials used for processing (veterinary drug residues, environmental contaminants, etc.). All of these hazardous compounds are briefly described in this chapter.
Western societies are concerned with the increased dietary consumption of sodium; in fact, it is well recognized that sodium intake exceeds the nutritional recommendations in most industrialized countries. Health authorities in most countries recommend lowering the salt contents of foods and reducing the consumption of salted foods and salt-processed foods. The reduction of the salt content in fermented meat products requires a global approach that take into account the relevant NaCl effects on final product quality, especially on flavor, water activity, microbial stability, enzyme activity, water holding capacity, protein solubility, texture, and diffusion. This Chapter looks at the approaches that have been taken in recent years to reducing sodium in fermented meat products.
This Chapter deals with semidry-fermented sausages common in Europe. In most European countries, there is no clear distinction in standards between semidry- and dry-fermented sausages, but generally the term "semidry-fermented" includes sausages with water activity above 0.91, moisture-to-protein ratio above 2, and drying loss of 10-20%. They are stabilized not only by low water activity but also by pH, and usually have only a limited shelf life at 10-15°C. Total ripening time is less than 4 weeks and fermentation temperatures are 20-25°C. For product safety, lactic acid bacteria (as starter), sugar, and nitrite (at levels of 80-120 mg sodium nitrite/kg) are added. Semidry-fermented sausages are most widespread in Germany, The Netherlands, and Scandinavia.
A pectin lyase, named PLIII, was purified to homogeneity from the culture filtrate of Aspergillus giganteus grown in submerged culture containing orange peel waste as carbon source. PLIII was able to digest apple pectin and citrus pectins with different degrees of methyl esterification. Interestingly, the PLIII activity was stimulated in the presence of some divalent cations including Pb2+ and was not significantly affected by Hg2+. Like other pectin lyases, PLIII is stimulated by but is not dependent on Ca2+. The main soluble product released during the degradation of pectic substances promoted by the PLIII is compatible with an unsaturated monogalacturonate. PLIII is a unique enzyme able to release unsaturated monogalacturonate as the only soluble product during the degradation of pectic substances; therefore, PLIII was classified as an exo-pectin lyase. To our knowledge, this is the first characterization of an exo-pectin lyase. The PLIII described in this work is potentially useful for ethanol production from pectin-rich biomass, besides other common applications for alkaline pectinases like preparation of textile fibers, coffee and tea fermentation, vegetable oil extraction, and the treatment of pulp in papermaking.
Bitter taste receptors (Tas2rs) and downstream effectors are responsible for mediating bitterness perception and regulation of food choice in mammals. Using RT-PCR, we demonstrated the expression of three Tas2rs and taste signal transduction molecules, α-gustducin, PLCβ2, and TRPM5, in the palate, tongue, and gastrointestinal tract sections in chicken. The bitter tastant quinine activates all three chicken Tas2rs in vitro as shown using calcium-imaging assays of transfected cells. Administration of quinine postnatally or perinatally (both pre- and posthatch) to chickens increased the expression of Tas2r genes in the palate by 6.45-fold (ggTas2r1 postnatal treatment), 4.86-fold (ggTas2r1 perinatal treatment), and 4.48-fold (ggTas2r7 postnatal treatment) compared to the genes' expression in the naïve group respectively, and affected taste related gene expression in the duodenum. Whereas no-choice intake of quinine solution was not significantly lower than that of water in naïve chicks, the treatment groups postnatal, prenatal, and perinatal showed significantly lower intake of quinine by 56.1, 47.7, and 50.2%, respectively, suggesting a possible trend toward sensitization. These results open new venues toward unraveling the formative stages shaping food intake and nutrition in chicken.
Introduction: Elafin is an endogenous serine protease inhibitor. The majority of breast cancer cell lines lack elafin expression compared to human mammary epithelial cells. In this study, we hypothesized that elafin is downregulated during breast and ovarian tumorigenesis. Methods: We examined elafin expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in specimens of normal breast tissue (n = 24), ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) (n = 54), and invasive breast cancer (n = 793). IHC analysis of elafin expression was also performed in normal fallopian tube tissue (n = 20), ovarian cystadenomas (n = 9), borderline ovarian tumors (n = 21), and invasive ovarian carcinomas (n = 216). To understand the significance of elafin in luminal breast cancer cell lines, wild-type or M25G elafin (lacking the protease inhibitory function) were exogenously expressed in MCF-7 and T47D cells. Results: Elafin expression was downregulated in 24% of DCIS and 83% of invasive breast tumors when compared to elafin expression in the normal mammary epithelium. However, the presence of elafin-positive cells in invasive breast tumors, even at low frequency, correlated with poor recurrence-free survival (RFS), reduced overall survival (OS), and clinicopathological markers of aggressive tumor behavior. Elafin-positive cells were an especially strong and independent prognostic marker of reduced RFS in IHC-defined luminal A-like tumors. Elafin was also downregulated in 33% of ovarian cystadenomas, 43% of borderline ovarian tumors, and 86% of invasive ovarian carcinomas when compared to elafin expression in the normal fallopian tube. In ovarian tumors, elafin-positive cells were correlated with reduced RFS, OS and disease-specific survival (DSS) only in stage I/II patients and not in stage III/IV patients. Notably, exogenous expression of elafin or elafin M25G in the luminal breast cancer cell lines MCF-7 and T47D significantly decreased cell proliferation in a protease inhibitory domain-independent manner. Conclusions: Elafin predicts poor outcome in breast and ovarian cancer patients and delineates a subset of endocrine receptor-positive breast cancer patients susceptible to recurrence who could benefit from more aggressive intervention. Our in vitro results suggest that elafin arrests luminal breast cancer cells, perhaps suggesting a role in tumor dormancy.
In the present study we have extended our previous findings about the effects of 10 minutes of passive mandibular extension in anesthetized Wistar rats. By prolonging the observation time to 3 hours, we showed that 10 minutes mandibular extension caused a significant reduction of the mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate respect to baseline values, which persisted up to 160 minutes after mandibular extension. These effects were accompanied by a characteristic biphasic response of pial arterioles: during mandibular extension, pial arterioles constricted and after mandibular extension dilated for the whole observation period. Interestingly, the administration of the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone abolished the vasoconstriction observed during mandibular extension, while the administration of N<inf>ω</inf>-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, abolished the vasodilation observed after mandibular extension. Either drug did not affect the reduction of mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate induced by mandibular extension. By qRT-PCR, we also showed that neuronal nitric oxide synthase gene expression was significantly increased compared with baseline conditions during and after mandibular extension and endothelial nitric oxide synthase gene expression markedly increased at 2 hours after mandibular extension. Finally, western blotting detected a significant increase in neuronal and endothelial nitric oxide synthase protein expression. In conclusion mandibular extension caused complex effects on pial microcirculation involving opioid receptor activation and nitric oxide release by both neurons and endothelial vascular cells at different times.
Influenza virus infections lead to numerous deaths and millions of hospitalizations each year. One challenge facing anti-influenza drug development is the heterogeneity of the circulating influenza viruses, which comprise several strains with variable susceptibility to antiviral drugs. For example, the wild-type (WT) influenza A viruses, such as the seasonal H1N1, tend to be sensitive to antiviral drugs, amantadine and rimantadine, while the S31N mutant viruses, such as the pandemic 2009 H1N1 (H1N1pdm09) and seasonal H3N2, are resistant to this class of drugs. Thus, drugs targeting both WT and the S31N mutant are highly desired. We report our design of a novel class of dual inhibitors along with their ion channel blockage and antiviral activities. The potency of the most active compound 11 in inhibiting WT and the S31N mutant influenza viruses is comparable with that of amantadine in inhibiting WT influenza virus. Solution NMR studies and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of drug-M2 interactions supported our design hypothesis: namely, the dual inhibitor binds in the WT M2 channel with an aromatic group facing down toward the C-terminus, while the same drug binds in the S31N M2 channel with its aromatic group facing up toward the N-terminus. The flip-flop mode of drug binding correlates with the structure-activity relationship (SAR) and has paved the way for the next round of rational design of broad-spectrum antiviral drugs.
Background: Activated hepatic stellate cells are the main source of excessive collagen deposition in liver fibrosis. Here we report the inhibitory effects of the combinational treatment of two natural products, astragalus polysaccharide (APS) and β-elemene (ELE) on the activation of human liver hepatic stellate cell line LX-2 cells. Methods: Cultured LX-2 cells were treated with different concentrations of APS or ELE for 24 or 48 hours. Cell viability/apoptosis was measured by MTT assay and Annexin V/PI staining , activation related genes including α-SMA and CD44 expressions were measured by real-time PCR and western blot respectively. Results: The majority of LX-2 cells showed morphological change in the presence of APS or ELE for 24 hours. Treatment with APS + ELE for 24 or 48 hours significantly inhabited the cell proliferation compared with APS or ELE treatment alone on LX-2 cells. APS + ELE may block the up-regulation of α-SMA and CD44 both in mRNA and protein levels through TGF-β pathway in LX-2 cells. Conclusion: APS or ELE treatment alone on LX-2 cells could inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis. The combinational treatment using APS + ELE significantly increased the killing efficiency on LX-2 cells. α-SMA and CD44 expressions was inhibited upon APS + ELE treatment through TGF-β pathway in LX-2 cells. The results indicated a novel treatment using natural products for liver diseases with anti-fibrotic effect.
Teleosts show a great variety in visual opsin complement, due to both gene duplication and gene loss. The repertoire ranges from one subfamily of visual opsins (scotopic vision) including rod opsin only retinas seen in many deep-sea species to multiple subfamilies of visual opsins in some pelagic species. We have investigated the opsin repertoire of Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) using information in the recently sequenced cod genome and found that despite cod not being a deep sea species it lacks visual subfamilies sensitive towards the most extreme parts of the light spectra representing UV and red light. Furthermore, we find that Atlantic cod has duplicated paralogs of both blue-sensitive SWS2 and green-sensitive RH2 subfamilies, with members belonging to each subfamily linked in tandem within the genome (two SWS2-, and three RH2A genes, respectively). The presence of multiple cone opsin genes indicates that there have been duplication events in the cod ancestor SWS2 and RH2 opsins producing paralogs that have been retained in Atlantic. Our results are supported by expressional analysis of cone opsins, which further revealed an ontogenetic change in the array of cone opsins expressed. These findings suggest life stage specific programs for opsin regulation which could be linked to habitat changes and available light as the larvae is transformed into an early juvenile. Altogether we provide the first molecular evidence for color vision driven by only two families of cone opsins due to gene loss in a teleost.
The purpose of this study is to investigate the anti-angiogenic activities of NSK-01105, a novel sorafenib derivative, in in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo models, and explore the potential mechanisms. NSK-01105 significantly inhibited vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-induced migration and tube formation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells at non-cytotoxic concentrations as shown by wound-healing, transwell migration and endothelial cell tube formation assays, respectively. Cell viability and invasion of LNCaP and PC-3 cells were significantly inhibited by cytotoxicity assay and matrigel invasion assay. Furthermore, NSK-01105 also inhibited ex vivo angiogenesis in matrigel plug assay. Western blot analysis showed that NSK-01105 down-regulated VEGF-induced phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2) and the activation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Tumor volumes were significantly reduced by NSK-01105 at 60 mg/kg/day in both xenograft models. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated a close association between inhibition of tumor growth and neovascularization. Collectively, our results suggest a role of NSK-01105 in treatment for human prostate tumors, and one of the potential mechanisms may be attributed to anti-angiogenic activities.
This is an openaccess article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. A recently isolated phage, vB-EcoP-SU10 (SU10), with the unusual elongated C3 morphotype, can infect a wide range of Escherichia coli strains. We have sequenced the genome of this phage and characterized it further by mass spectrometry based proteomics, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and ultra-thin section electron microscopy. The genome size is 77,327 base pairs and its genes, and genome architecture, show high similarity to the phiEco32 phage genes and genome. The TEM images reveal that SU10 have a quite long tail for being a Podoviridae phage, and that the tail also changes conformation upon infection. The ultra-thin section electron microscopy images of phages at the stage of replication within the host cell show that the phages form a honeycomb-like structure under packaging of genomes and assembly of mature capsids. This implies a tight link between the replication and cutting of the concatemeric genome, genome packaging, and capsid assembly. We have also performed a phylogenetic analysis of the structural genes common between Podoviridae phages of the C1 and C3 morphotypes. The result shows that the structural genes have coevolved, and that they form two distinct groups linked to their morphotypes. The structural genes of C1 and C3 phages appear to have diverged around 280 million years ago applying a molecular clock calibrated according to the presumed split between the Escherichia - Salmonella genera.
In this study, to improve the osseointegration of implants, osteogenic growth pep-tide (OGP) and fibronectin (FN) were loaded within mineral, which was formed on titanium, through adsorption and coprecipitation methods. The release profiles of OGP loaded by either adsorption or coprecipitation and the effects of the loading methods to immobilize OGP with and without FN on rat mesenchymal stem cell (rMSC) osteogenic differentiation were studied. The coprecipitation approach slightly reduced the initial burst release, while the adsorption approach provided a more sustained release. Dual loading of OGP and FN further improved cell attachments compared with either OGP or FN alone. Dually loaded OGP and FN also had a positive impact on rMSC proliferation and osteogenic differentiation. The difference in methods of loading OGP with and without FN also had some effects on osteogenic differentiation. Compared with coprecipitated OGP alone, adsorbed OGP enhanced later differentiation, such as osteocalcin secretion and matrix mineralization. Simultaneously adsorbed OGP and FN led to higher proliferation and higher osteogenic differentiation in both early and late stages compared with sequentially loaded OGP and FN. rMSC culture clearly indicated that simultaneously adsorbed OGP and FN could improve osseointegration, and this treatment represents a potential method for effective surface modifcation of dental and orthopedic implants.
Background: Tumorigenesis is characterised by changes in transcriptional control. Extensive transcript expression data have been acquired over the last decade and used to classify prostate cancers. Prostate cancer is, however, a heterogeneous multifocal cancer and this poses challenges in identifying robust transcript biomarkers. Methods: In this study, we have undertaken a meta-Analysis of publicly available transcriptomic data spanning datasets and technologies from the last decade and encompassing laser capture microdissected and macrodissected sample sets. Results: We identified a 33 gene signature that can discriminate between benign tissue controls and localised prostate cancers irrespective of detection platform or dissection status. These genes were significantly overexpressed in localised prostate cancer versus benign tissue in at least three datasets within the Oncomine Compendium of Expression Array Data. In addition, they were also overexpressed in a recent exon-Array dataset as well a prostate cancer RNA-seq dataset generated as part of the The Cancer Genomics Atlas (TCGA) initiative. Biologically, glycosylation was the single enriched process associated with this 33 gene signature, encompassing four glycosylating enzymes. We went on to evaluate the performance of this signature against three individual markers of prostate cancer, v-ets avian erythroblastosis virus E26 oncogene homolog (ERG) expression, prostate specific antigen (PSA) expression and androgen receptor (AR) expression in an additional independent dataset. Our signature had greater discriminatory power than these markers both for localised cancer and metastatic disease relative to benign tissue, or in the case of metastasis, also localised prostate cancer. Conclusion: In conclusion, robust transcript biomarkers are present within datasets assembled over many years and cohorts and our study provides both examples and a strategy for refining and comparing datasets to obtain additional markers as more data are generated.
The 3 human telomeric overhang provides ample opportunities for the formation and interaction of G-quadruplexes, which have shown impacts on many biological functions including telomerase activities in the telomere region. However, in the few investigations on DNA constructs that approach to the full length of the human telomeric overhang, the presence of higher-order quadruplex-quadruplex interactions is still a subject of debate. Herein, we employed dynamic splint ligation (DSL) to prepare a DNA construct, 5-(TTAGGG)<inf>24</inf> or 24G, which has the length comparable to the full stretch of 3 human telomeric overhang. Using mechanical unfolding assays in laser tweezers, we observed a minor population (5%) of higher-order interactions between G-quadruplexes, while the majority of the quadruplexes follow the bead-on-a-string model. Analyses on the noninteracting G-quadruplexes in the 24G construct showed features similar to those of the stand-alone G-quadruplexes in the 5-(TTAGGG)<inf>4</inf> (4G) construct. As each 24G construct contains as many as six G-quadruplexes, this method offers increased throughput for the time-consuming mechanical unfolding experiments of non-B DNA structures.
This article reports the design, synthesis, and evaluation of a novel class of molecules of intermediate size (approximately 7000 Da), which possess both the targeting and effector functions of antibodies. These compounds-called synthetic antibody mimics targeting prostate cancer (SyAM-Ps)-bind simultaneously to prostate-specific membrane antigen and Fc gamma receptor I, thus eliciting highly selective cancer cell phagocytosis. SyAMs have the potential to combine the advantages of both small-molecule and biologic therapies, and may address many drawbacks associated with available treatments for cancer and other diseases.
The grain hardness is one of the most important parameter of wheat. On morphological level it depends on the adhesion of the protein matrix and starch granules. The correlation between the endosperm structure, and the resultant milled grain has long been investigated. In the present experiments the grain hardness of winter wheat varieties were examined with Lloyd 1000 R Testing Machine, where an innovative, quasi-static procedure was developed. The wheat grain was examined in two positions (vertical and horizontal). The Young’s modulus, the break work and the maximum breaking force were determined. The results were compared with other wellknown method (Perten SKCS 4100 device). The method of pair correlation was applied for comparison study among the results. In case of our sample set (water content: 13,52 %), there were strong correlation among the Hardness Index and the Young’s modulus, the break work and between the maximum breaking force at vertical position. At horizontal position of the grains, the Hardness Index had robust correlation with the deformation modulus at compression, and adequate correlation with the breaking force. In the milling and baking industry the harder wheat grains expected to have higher quality. Our experiments can be helpful to distinguish the softer and harder grains.
The composition of fermented meat products is affected by the nutritional needs of both developing and industrialized countries, reflecting mainly problems of malnutrition and healthy nutrition, respectively. Therefore, emphasis is given to both nutrient content and the recently recognized relation between (processed) meat intake and the incidence of noncommunicable chronic diseases. This Chapter discusses the contribution of meat and processed meat consumption to nutrient intake, with particular emphasis on the quality of meat protein and the importance of heme iron intake. Another shift in emphasis concerns the place of meat and meat products in food-based nutritional guidelines and its relation to noncommunicable chronic diseases based on recent extensive epidemiological evidence. The effects of drying and fermentation processes on the nutritive and health value of meat products are discussed in detail. Special attention is given to attempts at improving the health value of fermented sausages.
Purpose: Previous studies detailing the development of posterior subcapsular cataracts (PSC) in Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) rats have shown that aberrant fiber-end migration underlies the structural compromise. This investigation was conducted to examine the distribution of select basal membrane complex (BMC) components and to assess the intravitreal levels of specific cytokines during PSC formation.Methods: Lenses from 52 RCS dystrophic rats (RCS/Lav) and 28 genetically matched control animals (RCS-rdy+/Lav) from 2 to 8 weeks old were used. After enucleation, vitreous was collected for eventual cytokine level analyses; lenses were then removed and processed for immunocytochemical localization of actin, cadherin, β integrin, vinculin, and cell nuclei.Results: At 2–3 weeks postnatal, dystrophic lenses showed normal BMC distribution of actin, cadherin, and vinculin; however β integrin distribution was altered as compared to controls. By 4–6 weeks of age, F-actin was visible as bright foci arranged in a “rosette” pattern around fiber-end profiles. Concurrently, vinculin was rearranged into a diffuse pattern within the BMC. Cadherin delineated the fiber ends in dystrophic lenses until 5 weeks postnatal, after which it displayed diffuse cytoplasmic staining with more definitive labeling at the BMC periphery. β integrin was initially distributed as punctuate spots at 2–3 weeks postnatal; however, by 4–6 weeks it was co-localized with F-actin around the periphery of fiber ends. The distribution of F-actin, cadherin, and β integrin components did not undergo further changes after 6 weeks of age; however, vinculin was present predominantly at the periphery of the BMC in 7–8-week-old dystrophic lenses. Intravitreal cytokine levels were assessed for interleukin (IL)-1α, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and interferon (IFN)-γ. Levels of IL-1α, IL-4, TNF, and IFN-γ demonstrated a similar pattern, with concentrations increasing from 2 to 6 weeks postnatal and then decreasing slightly up to 8 weeks of age. IL-4 and TNF had the highest average concentrations, with peaks of 148.00 pg/ml and 34.20 pg/ml, respectively.Conclusions: The data indicate that defined rearrangements of normal BMC architecture precede and characterize the structural changes that culminate in the PSC. These are consistent with modifications of adhesion mechanics involving cell–cell attachment, cell–matrix adhesion, and timely fiber-end detachment. Further, the results suggest that pro-inflammatory cytokines are potential initiating factors in aberrant fiber-end migration and subsequent PSC formation.
Background: There is limited information on a special subtype of Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) characterized by >20% myeloblasts and >20% abnormal promyelocytes in bone marrow and peripheral blood. Objective: The objective of the present investigation was to explore the clinical and laboratory features of seven patients with AML-M2/M3. Method: We retrospectively assessed cell morphology, cytochemistry, immunophenotype, cytogenetics, and clinical features of seven patients with this rare subtype of AML. Results: All seven cases had thrombocytopenia, coagulation abnormalities, >20% myeloblasts and abnormal promyelocytes. The PML/RARα fusion gene was present in six patients and two patients presented a mixed PML/RARα and AML1/ETO genotype. Five cases achieved CR and two cases did not achieve remission and one case transform into AML-M2 after CR1. Conclusions: The clinical and laboratory features of seven patients with AML-M2/M3 are demonstrated in the present study, providing information on the FAB sub-classification.
Visceral leishmaniasis, a vector-borne tropical disease that is threatening about 350 million people worldwide, is caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani. Metalloids like arsenic and antimony have been used to treat diseases like leishmaniasis caused by the kinetoplastid parasites. Arsenic (III) at a relatively higher concentration (30 g/mL) has been shown to have antileishmanial activity, but this concentration is reported to be toxic in several experimental mammalian systems. Nanosized metal (0) particles have been shown to be more effective than their higher oxidation state forms. There is no information so far regarding arsenic nanoparticles (As-NPs) as an antileishmanial agent. We have tested the antileishmanial properties of the As-NPs, developed for the first time in our laboratory. As-NPs inhibited the in vitro growth, oxygen consumption, infectivity, and intramacrophage proliferation of L. donovani parasites at a concentration which is about several fold lower than that of As (III). Moreover, this antileishmanial activity has comparatively less cytotoxic effect on the mouse macrophage cell line. It is evident from our findings that As-NPs have more potential than As (III) to be used as an antileishmanial agent.
Elucidation of transcriptional regulatory networks (TRNs) is a fundamental goal in biology, and one of the most important components of TRNs are transcription factors (TFs), proteins that specifically bind to gene promoter and enhancer regions to alter target gene expression patterns. Advances in genomic technologies as well as advances in computational biology have led to multiple large regulatory network models (directed networks) each with a large corpus of supporting data and gene-annotation. There are multiple possible biological motivations for exploring large regulatory network models, including: validating TF-target gene relationships, figuring out co-regulation patterns, and exploring the coordination of cell processes in response to changes in cell state or environment. Here we focus on queries aimed at validating regulatory network models, and on coordinating visualization of primary data and directed weighted gene regulatory networks. The large size of both the network models and the primary data can make such coordinated queries cumbersome with existing tools and, in particular, inhibits the sharing of results between collaborators. In this work, we develop and demonstrate a web-based framework for coordinating visualization and exploration of expression data (RNA-seq, microarray), network models and gene-binding data (ChIP-seq). Using specialized data structures and multiple coordinated views, we design an efficient querying model to support interactive analysis of the data. Finally, we show the effectiveness of our framework through case studies for the mouse immune system (a dataset focused on a subset of key cellular functions) and a model bacteria (a small genome with high data-completeness).
Treatment with cisplatin-containing chemotherapy regimens causes hearing loss in 40-60% of cancer patients. It has been suggested that genetic variants in the genes encoding thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) and catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) can predict the development of cisplatin-induced ototoxicity and may explain interindividual variability in sensitivity to cisplatin-induced hearing loss. Two recently published studies however, sought to validate these findings and showed inconsistent results. The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of polymorphisms in the TPMT and COMT genes in cisplatin-induced ototoxicity. Therefore we investigated two independent cohorts of 110 Dutch and 38 Spanish patients with osteosarcoma and performed a meta-analysis including all previously published studies resulting in a total population of 664 patients with cancer. With this largest meta-analysis performed to date, we show that the influence of TPMT and COMT on the development of cisplatin-induced hearing loss may be less important than previously suggested.
Objective: To analyze the correlation between the polymorphism of PTPN22 gene (R620W and R263Q sites) and pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) in Chinese Han population and to investigate the environmental factors associated with pulmonary TB. Methods: A case-control study was conducted on 235 patients with pulmonary TB and 251 healthy subjects. The single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) of PTPN22 gene at R620W and R263Q sites were detected by the assay of polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). A questionnaire was designed to gather information about tuberculosis-associated environmental factors. Univariate and multivariate logistic analysis were conducted. Results: Genotype frequencies of PTPN22 R620W (C1858T) SNP were 233(99.15%, CC), 2 (0.85%, CT), 0(0%, TT) in patients with pulmonary TB and 240(95.62%, CC), 11(4.38%, CT), 0(0%, TT) in healthy subjects. There was a difference with the distribution of PTPN22 C1858T allele between patients with pulmonary TB and healthy subjects [0.43% vs 2.19%, P=0.01, odds ratio (OR)=0.19, 95% confidence interval (CI)=0.07-0.35]. Genotype frequencies of PTPN22 R263Q (G788A) were 218 (92.77%, GG), 17 (7.31%, GA), 0(0%, AA) in patients with pulmonary TB and 248 (98.71%, GG), 3(1.29%, GA), 0(0%, AA) in healthy subjects. The frequencies of G788A allele in patients with pulmonary TB were higher than those in healthy subjects (3.62% vs 0.60%, P < 0.01, OR=6.03, 95% CI=2.12-18.38). Conclusion: The results of this study suggested that the R263Q GG genotype of PTPN22 gene was associated with the susceptibility to TB in Chinese Han population.
; licensee BioMed Central. Background: Approximately 7% of survivors from meningococcal meningitis (MM) suffer from neurological sequelae due to brain damage in the course of meningitis. The present study focuses on the role of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in a novel mouse model of MM-induced brain damage. Methods: The model is based on intracisternal infection of BALB/c mice with a serogroup C Neisseria meningitidis strain. Mice were infected with meningococci and randomised for treatment with the MMP inhibitor batimastat (BB-94) or vehicle. Animal survival, brain injury and host-response biomarkers were assessed 48 h after meningococcal challenge. Results: Mice that received BB-94 presented significantly diminished MMP-9 levels (p < 0.01), intracerebral bleeding (p < 0.01), and blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown (p < 0.05) in comparison with untreated animals. In mice suffering from MM, the amount of MMP-9 measured by zymography significantly correlated with both intracerebral haemorrhage (p < 0.01) and BBB disruption (p < 0.05). Conclusions: MMPs significantly contribute to brain damage associated with experimental MM. Inhibition of MMPs reduces intracranial complications in mice suffering from MM, representing a potential adjuvant strategy in MM post-infection sequelae.
The narrow genetic base and limited genetic information on Arachis species have hindered the process of marker-assisted selection of peanut cultivars. However, recent developments in sequencing technologies have expanded opportunities to exploit genetic resources, and at lower cost. To use the genetic information for Arachis species available at the transcriptome level, it is important to have a good quality reference transcriptome. The available Tifrunner 454 FLEX transcriptome sequences have an assembly with 37,000 contigs and low N50 values of 500-751bp. Therefore, we generated de novo transcriptome assemblies, with about 38 million reads in the tetraploid cultivar OLin, and 16 million reads in each of the diploids, A. duranensis K38901 and A. ipaënsis KGBSPSc30076 using three different de novo assemblers, Trinity, SOAPdenovo-Trans and TransAByss. All these assemblers can use single kmer analysis, and the latter two also permit multiple kmer analysis. Assemblies generated for all three samples had N50 values ranging from 1278-1641 bp in Arachis hypogaea (AABB), 1401-1492 bp in Arachis duranensis (AA), and 1107-1342 bp in Arachis ipaënsis (BB). Comparison with legume ESTs and protein databases suggests that assemblies generated had more than 40% full length transcripts with good continuity. Also, on mapping the raw reads to each of the assemblies generated, Trinity had a high success rate in assembling sequences compared to both TransAByss and SOAPdenovo-Trans. De novo assembly of OLin had a greater number of contigs (67,098) and longer contig length (N50=1,641) compared to the Tifrunner TSA. Despite having shorter read length (2 × 50) than the Tifrunner 454FLEX TSA, de novo assembly of OLin proved superior in comparison. Assemblies generated to represent different genome combinations may serve as a valuable resource for the peanut research community.
Antithrombin (AT) is known as an important physiological anticoagulant. AT inactivates thrombin and multiple other coagulation factors, thereby strongly inhibiting the over-activation of the coagulation system during disseminated vascular coagulation (DIC). AT also suppresses the pro-inflammatory reactions that are promoted through protease-activated receptor-1 during sepsis. One of the unique characteristics of AT is the conformational change it undergoes when binding to heparin-like molecules. The anticoagulant function is greatly accelerated after AT binds to externally administered heparin in the circulating blood. Meanwhile, AT also binds to syndecan-4 on the cell surface under physiological conditions, thereby contributing to local antithrombogenicity. The binding of AT and syndecan-4 upregulates prostaglandin I2 production, downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokine production, and suppresses the leukocyte-endothelial interaction. Other than these activities, recent preclinical studies have reported that AT might inhibit neutrophil necrotic cell death and the ejection of neutrophil extracellular traps. Together, these effects may lead to the attenuation of inflammation by decreasing the level of damage-associated molecular patterns. Although a number of animal studies have demonstrated a survival benefit of AT, the clinical benefit has long been argued since the effect of high-dose AT was denied in 2001 in a large-scale randomized controlled trial targeting patients with severe sepsis. However, recent clinical studies examining the effects of a supplemental dose of AT in patients with sepsis-associated DIC have revealed that AT is potentially effective for DIC resolution and survival improvement without increasing the risk of bleeding. Since DIC is still a major threat during sepsis, the optimal method of identifying this promising drug needs to be identified.
Objectives. The effect of the KIF6 polymorphism Trp719Arg on the risk of T2DM and T2DM with CHD remains unclear. Methods. 946 unrelated subjects of Han Chinese origin were recruited, comprising 346 controls, 312 T2DM, and 288 T2DM + CHD patients. Genotyping was performed by high-resolution melting curve analysis using real-time qPCR. The impact of the variant on T2DM/T2DM + CHD and gene-sex interaction were evaluated by stepwise multiple regression analysis. Results. The frequencies of the Trp719 allele in T2DM and T2DM + CHD patients were similar to the control group, whereas significantly increased 719Arg allele frequencies were observed in male T2DM and T2DM + CHD patients compared with the corresponding control group. Further sex partition analysis revealed that only male 719Arg allele carriers had approximately 3-fold and 5-fold higher risk of T2DM and T2DM + CHD, respectively, than noncarriers. There was also a significant association between carriers and higher TG and lower HDL-C levels. Conclusion. The KIF6 719Arg allele may increase the risk of T2DM and T2DM + CHD only in Han Chinese men by modulating lipid metabolism, especially with regard to TG and HDL.
This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. The consumption of tomato products has been associated with a decreased risk for chronic inflammatory diseases. In this study, the anti-inflammatory potential of tomato ketchup was evaluated by studying the effect of tomato ketchup extracts and bioactives from tomato ketchup on human monocytes and vascular endothelial cells (HUVEC). HUVEC were pre-treated for 1 h with either individual bioactives (7.5 μM lycopene, 1.4 μM α-tocopherol or 55 μM ascorbic acid) or a combination of these three compounds, or with the hydrophilic or lipophilic tomato ketchup extracts or with the two extracts combined. After the pretreatment, the cells were washed and challenged with TNF-α (10 ng/ml) for 6 h. The medium was used for the determination of the release of cytokines and the chemotaxis of monocytes. Inflammatory protein expression and production were assayed with real-time RT-PCR and ELISA. It was found that tomato ketchup extracts significantly reduced gene expression and release of the pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-8 in HUVEC after the inflammatory challenge, whereas the release of the antiinflammatory cytokine IL-10 was increased. Chemotaxis was effectively impeded as demonstrated by a reduced monocyte migration. This effect correlated with the reduction of IL-8 production in the presence of the test compounds and extracts. The results consistently emphasize the contribution of lycopene to the antiinflammatory effect of tomato ketchup. Other compounds in tomato ketchup such as α-tocopherol and ascorbic acid appeared to strengthen the anti-inflammatory effect of lycopene. The tomato ketchup extracts subtly interfered with several inflammatory phases that inhibit chemotaxis. Such a pleotropic mode of action exemplifies its potential mitigation of diseases characterized by prolonged low grade inflammation.
Background: We previously showed that the ghost platform (VCG; empty cell envelopes) is an effective delivery system for vaccine antigens promoting the induction of substantial immunity in the absence of external adjuvants. However, the mechanism by which these cell envelopes enhance immunity and stimulate a predominantly Th1 cellular and humoral immune response has not been elucidated. We hypothesized that the immunostimulatory ability of VCG involves dendritic cell (DC) activation. Objective: The aims of this study were: a) to investigate the ability of DCs [using mouse bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs) as a model system] to take up and internalize VCGs; b) to evaluate the immunomodulatory effect of internalized VCGs on DC activation and maturation and their functional capacity to present chlamydial antigen to ve and infection-sensitized CD4+ T cells and; c) to evaluate the ability of VCGs to enhance the protective immunity of a chlamydial antigen. Results: VCGs were efficiently internalized by DCs without affecting their viability and modulated DC-mediated immune responses. VCG-pulsed DCs showed increased secretion of proinflammatory cytokines and expression of co-stimulatory molecules associated with DC maturation in response to stimulation with UV-irradiated chlamydial elementary bodies (UV-EBs). Furthermore, this interaction resulted in effective chlamydial antigen presentation to infection-sensitized but not na ve CD4+ T cells and enhancement of protective immunity. Conclusions: The present study demonstrated that VCGs activate DCs leading to the surface expression of co-stimulatory molecules associated with DC activation and maturation and enhancement of protective immunity induced by a chlamydial antigen. The results indicate that the immunoenhancing activity of VCG for increased T-cell activation against antigens is mediated, at least in part, through DC triggering. Thus, VCGs could be harnessed as immunomodulators to target antigens to DCs for enhancement of protective immunity against microbial infections.
Background: Mucins are implicated in survival in various cancers, but there have been no report addressed on survival in appendiceal carcinoma, an uncommon disease with different clinical and pathological features from those of other colon cancers. We aimed to investigate the clinical implications of expression of mucins in appendiceal carcinoma. Methods: Expression profiles of MUC1, MUC2, MUC3, MUC4, MUC5AC, MUC6, MUC16 and MUC17 in cancer tissue were examined by immunohistochemistry in 108 cases of surgically resected appendiceal carcinoma. Results: The following relationships of mucins with clinicopathologic factors were identified: MUC1 with positive lymphatic invasion (p=0.036); MUC2 with histological type (mucinous carcinoma, p<0.001), superficial invasion depth (p=0.007), negative venous invasion (p=0.003), and curative resection (p=0.019); MUC3 with non-curative resection (p=0.017); MUC5AC with histological type (mucinous carcinoma, p=0.002), negative lymphatic invasion (p=0.021), and negative venous invasion (p=0.022); and MUC16 with positive lymph node metastasis (p=0.035), positive venous invasion (p<0.05), and non-curative resection (p=0.035). A poor prognosis was related to positive lymph node metastasis (p=0.04), positive lymphatic invasion (p=0.02), positive venous invasion (p<0.001), non-curative resection (p<0.001), and positive expression of MUC3 (p=0.004). In multivariate analysis, positive venous invasion (HR: 6.93, 95% CI: 1.93-24.96, p=0.003), non-curative resection (HR: 10.19, 95% CI: 3.05-34.07, p<0.001) and positive MUC3 expression (HR: 3.37, 95% CI: 1.13-10.03, p=0.03) were identified as significant independent prognostic factors in patients with appendiceal carcinoma. Conclusions: Expression of MUC3 in appendiceal carcinoma is an independent factor for poor prognosis and a useful predictor of outcome in patients with appendiceal carcinoma after surgery.
Plasma fibrinogen is an acute phase protein playing an important role in the blood coagulation cascade having strong associations with smoking, alcohol consumption and body mass index (BMI). Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified a variety of gene regions associated with elevated plasma fibrinogen concentrations. However, little is yet known about how associations between environmental factors and fibrinogen might be modified by genetic variation. Therefore, we conducted large-scale meta-analyses of genome-wide interaction studies to identify possible interactions of genetic variants and smoking status, alcohol consumption or BMI on fibrinogen concentration. The present study included 80,607 subjects of European ancestry from 22 studies. Genome-wide interaction analyses were performed separately in each study for about 2.6 million single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) across the 22 autosomal chromosomes. For each SNP and risk factor, we performed a linear regression under an additive genetic model including an interaction term between SNP and risk factor. Interaction estimates were meta-analysed using a fixed-effects model. No genome-wide significant interaction with smoking status, alcohol consumption or BMI was observed in the meta-analyses. The most suggestive interaction was found for smoking and rs10519203, located in the LOC123688 region on chromosome 15, with a p value of 6.2×10<sup>-8</sup>. This large genome-wide interaction study including 80,607 participants found no strong evidence of interaction between genetic variants and smoking status, alcohol consumption or BMI on fibrinogen concentrations. Further studies are needed to yield deeper insight in the interplay between environmental factors and gene variants on the regulation of fibrinogen concentrations.
Introduction: More than 70 common alleles are known to be involved in breast cancer (BC) susceptibility, and several exhibit significant heterogeneity in their associations with different BC subtypes. Although there are differences in the association patterns between BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers and the general population for several loci, no study has comprehensively evaluated the associations of all known BC susceptibility alleles with risk of BC subtypes in BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers. Methods: We used data from 15,252 BRCA1 and 8,211 BRCA2 carriers to analyze the associations between approximately 200,000 genetic variants on the iCOGS array and risk of BC subtypes defined by estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) and triple-negative- (TN) status; morphologic subtypes; histological grade; and nodal involvement. Results: The estimated BC hazard ratios (HRs) for the 74 known BC alleles in BRCA1 carriers exhibited moderate correlations with the corresponding odds ratios from the general population. However, their associations with ER-positive BC in BRCA1 carriers were more consistent with the ER-positive associations in the general population (intraclass correlation (ICC)=0.61, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.45 to 0.74), and the same was true when considering ER-negative associations in both groups (ICC=0.59, 95% CI: 0.42 to 0.72). Similarly, there was strong correlation between the ER-positive associations for BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers (ICC=0.67, 95% CI: 0.52 to 0.78), whereas ER-positive associations in any one of the groups were generally inconsistent with ER-negative associations in any of the others. After stratifying by ER status in mutation carriers, additional significant associations were observed. Several previously unreported variants exhibited associations at P <10-6 in the analyses by PR status, HER2 status, TN phenotype, morphologic subtypes, histological grade and nodal involvement. Conclusions: Differences in associations of common BC susceptibility alleles between BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers and the general population are explained to a large extent by differences in the prevalence of ER-positive and ER-negative tumors. Estimates of the risks associated with these variants based on population-based studies are likely to be applicable to mutation carriers after taking ER status into account, which has implications for risk prediction.
Background: Influenza A viruses (IAVs) are important pathogens that affect the health of humans and many additional animal species. IAVs are enveloped, negative single-stranded RNA viruses whose genome encodes at least ten proteins. The IAV nucleoprotein (NP) is a structural protein that associates with the viral RNA and is essential for virus replication. Understanding how IAVs interact with host proteins is essential for elucidating all of the required processes for viral replication, restrictions in species host range, and potential targets for antiviral therapies. Methods: In this study, the NP from a swine IAV was cloned into a yeast two-hybrid "bait" vector for expression of a yeast Gal4 binding domain (BD)-NP fusion protein. This "bait" was used to screen a Y2H human HeLa cell "prey" library which consisted of human proteins fused to the Gal4 protein's activation domain (AD). The interaction of "bait" and "prey" proteins resulted in activation of reporter genes. Results: Seventeen positive bait-prey interactions were isolated in yeast. All of the "prey" isolated also interact in yeast with a NP "bait" cloned from a human IAV strain. Isolation and sequence analysis of the cDNAs encoding the human prey proteins revealed ten different human proteins. These host proteins are involved in various host cell processes and structures, including purine biosynthesis (PAICS), metabolism (ACOT13), proteasome (PA28B), DNA-binding (MSANTD3), cytoskeleton (CKAP5), potassium channel formation (KCTD9), zinc transporter function (SLC30A9), Na+/K+ ATPase function (ATP1B1), and RNA splicing (TRA2B). Conclusions: Ten human proteins were identified as interacting with IAV NP in a Y2H screen. Some of these human proteins were reported in previous screens aimed at elucidating host proteins relevant to specific viral life cycle processes such as replication. This study extends previous findings by suggesting a mechanism by which these host proteins associate with the IAV, i.e., physical interaction with NP. Furthermore, this study revealed novel host protein-NP interactions in yeast.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Pumilio/feminization of XX and XO animals (fem)-3 mRNA-binding factor (PUF) proteins bind sequence specifically to mRNA targets using a single-stranded RNA-binding domain comprising eight Pumilio (PUM) repeats. PUM repeats have now been identified in proteins that function in pre-rRNA processing, including human Puf-A and yeast Puf6. This is a role not previously ascribed to PUF proteins. Here we present crystal structures of human Puf-A that reveal a class of nucleic acid-binding proteins with 11 PUM repeats arranged in an "L"-like shape. In contrast to classical PUF proteins, Puf-A forms sequence-independent interactions with DNA or RNA, mediated by conserved basic residues. We demonstrate that equivalent basic residues in yeast Puf6 are important for RNA binding, pre-rRNA processing, and mRNA localization. Thus, PUM repeats can be assembled into alternative folds that bind to structured nucleic acids in addition to forming canonical eight-repeat crescent-shaped RNA-binding domains found in classical PUF proteins.
There is great interest in developing selective protein kinase inhibitors by targeting allosteric sites, but these sites often involve protein-protein or protein-peptide interfaces that are very challenging to target with small molecules. Here we present a systematic approach to targeting a functionally conserved allosteric site on the protein kinase PDK1 called the PDK1-interacting fragment (PIF)tide-binding site, or PIF pocket. More than two dozen prosurvival and progrowth kinases dock a conserved peptide tail into this binding site, which recruits them to PDK1 to become activated. Using a site-directed chemical screen, we identified and chemically optimized ligand-efficient, selective, and cell-penetrant small molecules (molecular weight ∼380 Da) that compete with the peptide docking motif for binding to PDK1. We solved the first high-resolution structure of a peptide docking motif (PIFtide) bound to PDK1 and mapped binding energy hot spots using mutational analysis. We then solved structures of PDK1 bound to the allosteric small molecules, which revealed a binding mode that remarkably mimics three of five hot-spot residues in PIFtide. These allosteric small molecules are substrate-selective PDK1 inhibitors when used as single agents, but when combined with an ATP-competitive inhibitor, they completely suppress the activation of the downstream kinases. This work provides a promising new scaffold for the development of high-affinity PIF pocket ligands, which may be used to enhance the anticancer activity of existing PDK1 inhibitors. Moreover, our results provide further impetus for exploring the helix αC patches of other protein kinases as potential therapeutic targets even though they involve protein-protein interfaces.
The C4-dicarboxylate responsive sensor kinase DcuS of the DcuS/DcuR two-component system of E. coli is membrane-bound and reveals a polar localization. DcuS uses the C4-dicarboxylate transporter DctA as a co-regulator forming DctA/DcuS sensor units. Here it is shown by fluorescence microscopy with fusion proteins that DcuS has a dynamic and preferential polar localization, even at very low expression levels. Single assemblies of DcuS had high mobility in fast time lapse acquisitions, and fast recovery in FRAP experiments, excluding polar accumulation due to aggregation. DctA and DcuR fused to derivatives of the YFP protein are dispersed in the membrane or in the cytosol, respectively, when expressed without DcuS, but co-localize with DcuS when co-expressed at appropriate levels. Thus, DcuS is required for location of DctA and DcuR at the poles and formation of tripartite DctA/DcuS/DcuR sensor/regulator complexes. Vice versa, DctA, DcuR and the alternative succinate transporter DauA were not essential for polar localization of DcuS, suggesting that the polar trapping occurs by DcuS. Cardiolipin, the high curvature at the cell poles, and the cytoskeletal protein MreB were not required for polar localization. In contrast, polar localization of DcuS required the presence of the cytoplasmic PASC and the kinase domains of DcuS.
The signal transduction pathway of the DNA damage response (DDR) is activated to maintain genomic integrity following DNA damage. The DDR promotes genomic integrity by regulating a large network of cellular activities that range from DNA replication and repair to transcription, RNA splicing, and metabolism. In this study we define an interaction between the DDR factor NBS1 and TCOF1, a nucleolar protein that regulates ribosomal DNA (rDNA) transcription and is mutated in Treacher Collins syndrome. We show that NBS1 relocalizes to nucleoli after DNA damage in a manner dependent on TCOF1 and on casein kinase II and ATM, which are known to modify TCOF1 by phosphorylation. Moreover, we identify a putative ATM phosphorylation site that is required for NBS1 relocalization to nucleoli in response to DNA damage. Last, we report that TCOF1 promotes cellular resistance to DNA damaging agents. Collectively, our findings identify TCOF1 as a DDR factor that could cooperate with ATM and NBS1 to suppress inappropriate rDNA transcription and maintain genomic integrity after DNA damage.
The metalloprotease ADAMTS13 cleaves von Willebrand factor (VWF) within endovascular platelet aggregates, and ADAMTS13 deficiency causes fatal microvascular thrombosis. The proximal metalloprotease (M), disintegrin-like (D), thrombospondin-1 (T), Cys-rich (C), and spacer (S) domains of ADAMTS13 recognize a cryptic site in VWF that is exposed by tensile force. Another seven T and two complement C1r/C1s, sea urchin epidermal growth factor, and bone morphogenetic protein (CUB) domains of uncertain function are C-terminal to the MDTCS domains. We find that the distal T8-CUB2 domains markedly inhibit substrate cleavage, and binding of VWF or monoclonal antibodies to distal ADAMTS13 domains relieves this autoinhibition. Small angle X-ray scattering data indicate that distal T-CUB domains interact with proximal MDTCS domains. Thus, ADAMTS13 is regulated by substrate-induced allosteric activation, which may optimize VWF cleavage under fluid shear stress in vivo. Distal domains of other ADAMTS proteases may have similar allosteric properties.
The question of how an aggregating protein can influence aggregation of other proteins located in its vicinity is particularly significant because many proteins coexist in cells. We demonstrate in vitro coaggregation and cross-seeding of lysozyme, bovine serum albumin, insulin, and cytochrome c during their amyloid formation. The coaggregation process seems to be more dependent on the temperature-induced intermediate species of these proteins and less dependent on their sequence identities. Because amyloid-linked inclusions and plaques are recognized as multicomponent entities originating from aggregation of the associated protein, these findings may add new insights into the mechanistic understanding of amyloid-related pathologies.
Despite extensive study, progress in elucidation of biological functions of amyloids and their role in pathology is largely restrained due to the lack of universal and reliable biochemical methods for their discovery. All biochemical methods developed so far allowed only identification of glutamine/asparagine-rich amyloid-forming proteins or proteins comprising amyloids that form large deposits. In this article we present a proteomic approach which may enable identification of a broad range of amyloid-forming proteins independently of specific features of their sequences or levels of expression. This approach is based on the isolation of protein fractions enriched with amyloid aggregates via sedimentation by ultracentrifugation in the presence of strong ionic detergents, such as sarkosyl or SDS. Sedimented proteins are then separated either by 2D difference gel electrophoresis or by SDS-PAGE, if they are insoluble in the buffer used for 2D difference gel electrophoresis, after which they are identified by mass-spectrometry. We validated this approach by detection of known yeast prions and mammalian proteins with established capacity for amyloid formation and also revealed yeast proteins forming detergent-insoluble aggregates in the presence of human huntingtin with expanded polyglutamine domain. Notably, with one exception, all these proteins contained glutamine/asparagine-rich stretches suggesting that their aggregates arose due to polymerization cross-seeding by human huntingtin. Importantly, though the approach was developed in a yeast model, it can easily be applied to any organism thus representing an efficient and universal tool for screening for amyloid proteins.
FtsK/SpoIIIE family ATPases are conserved throughout bacteria and are involved in the translocation of DNA and proteins through membrane-spanning pores. Through comparison of 26 whole-genome-sequenced M. tuberculosis complex (MTBC) strains downloaded from NCBI website, we found that FtsK/SpoIIIE protein presented polymorphisms. One M. bovis strain and three BCG strains even showed the two T cell epitopes missing. Then we chose 159 clinical M. tuberculosis isolates from China, amplified gene encoding FtsK/SpoIIIE protein (Rv3871) and compared the sequences. The results showed that there are polymorphisms existed in FtsK/SpoIIIE protein among MTBC, which may affect both protein function and host immune reaction. In addition, position 1497 could be used as a good phylogenetic marker for Beijing strains.
Hedgehog (Hh) signaling governs many developmental processes by regulating the balance between the repressor (CiR/GliR) and activator (CiA/GliA) forms of Cubitus interruptus (Ci)/glioma-associated oncogene homolog (Gli) transcription factors. Although much is known about how CiR/GliR is controlled, the regulation of CiA/GliA remains poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that Casein kinase 1 (CK1) sustains Hh signaling downstream of Costal2 and Suppressor of fused (Sufu) by protecting CiA from premature degradation. We show that Hh stimulates Ci phosphorylation by CK1 at multiple Ser/Thr-rich degrons to inhibit its recognition by the Hh-induced MATH and BTB domain containing protein (HIB), a substrate receptor for the Cullin 3 family of E3 ubiquitin ligases. In Hh-receiving cells, reduction of CK1 activity accelerated HIB-mediated degradation of CiA, leading to premature loss of pathway activity. We also provide evidence that GliA is regulated by CK1 in a similar fashion and that CK1 acts downstream of Sufu to promote Sonic hedgehog signaling. Taken together, our study not only reveals an unanticipated and conserved mechanism by which phosphorylation of Ci/Gli positively regulates Hh signaling but also provides the first evidence, to our knowledge, that substrate recognition by the Cullin 3 family of E3 ubiquitin ligases is negatively regulated by a kinase.
; licensee BioMed Central.Background: Normal mode analysis (NMA) using elastic network models is a reliable and cost-effective computational method to characterise protein flexibility and by extension, their dynamics. Further insight into the dynamics-function relationship can be gained by comparing protein motions between protein homologs and functional classifications. This can be achieved by comparing normal modes obtained from sets of evolutionary related proteins. Results: We have developed an automated tool for comparative NMA of a set of pre-aligned protein structures. The user can submit a sequence alignment in the FASTA format and the corresponding coordinate files in the Protein Data Bank (PDB) format. The computed normalised squared atomic fluctuations and atomic deformation energies of the submitted structures can be easily compared on graphs provided by the web user interface. The web server provides pairwise comparison of the dynamics of all proteins included in the submitted set using two measures: the Root Mean Squared Inner Product and the Bhattacharyya Coefficient. The Comparative Analysis has been implemented on our web server for NMA, WEBnmat, which also provides recently upgraded functionality for NMA of single protein structures. This includes new visualisations of protein motion, visualisation of inter-residue correlations and the analysis of conformational change using the. In addition, programmatic access to WEBnmat is now available through a SOAP-based web service. WEBnmat is available at. Conclusion: WEBnmat v2.0 is an online tool offering unique capability for comparative NMA on multiple protein structures. Along with a convenient web interface, powerful computing resources, and several methods for mode analyses, WEBnmat facilitates the assessment of protein flexibility within protein families and superfamilies. These analyses can give a good view of how the structures move and how the flexibility is conserved over the different structures.
The availability of complete genome sequences of H. pylori 26695 has provided a wealth of information enabling us to carry out in silico studies to identify new molecular targets for pharmaceutical treatment. In order to construe the structural and functional information of complete proteome, use of computational methods are more relevant since these methods are reliable and provide a solution to the time consuming and expensive experimental methods. Out of 1590 predicted protein coding genes in H. pylori, experimentally determined structures are available for only 145 proteins in the PDB. In the absence of experimental structures, computational studies on the three dimensional (3D) structural organization would help in deciphering the protein fold, structure and active site. Functional annotation of each protein was carried out based on structural fold and binding site based ligand association. Most of these proteins are uncharacterized in this proteome and through our annotation pipeline we were able to annotate most of them. We could assign structural folds to 464 uncharacterized proteins from an initial list of 557 sequences. Of the 1195 known structural folds present in the SCOP database, 411 (34% of all known folds) are observed in the whole H. pylori 26695 proteome, with greater inclination for domains belonging to α/β class (36.63%). Top folds include P-loop containing nucleoside triphosphate hydrolases (22.6%), TIM barrel (16.7%), transmembrane helix hairpin (16.05%), alpha-alpha superhelix (11.1%) and S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyltransferases (10.7%).
Background: Tandem repetition of structural motifs in proteins is frequently observed across all forms of life. Topology of repeating unit and its frequency of occurrence are associated to a wide range of structural and functional roles in diverse proteins, and defects in repeat proteins have been associated with a number of diseases. It is thus desirable to accurately identify specific repeat type and its copy number. Weak evolutionary constraints on repeat units and insertions/deletions between them make their identification difficult at the sequence level and structure based approaches are desired. The proposed graph spectral approach is based on protein structure represented as a graph for detecting one of the most frequently observed structural repeats, Ankyrin repeat. Results: It has been shown in a large number of studies that 3-dimensional topology of a protein structure is well captured by a graph, making it possible to analyze a complex protein structure as a mathematical entity. In this study we show that eigen spectra profile of a protein structure graph exhibits a unique repetitive profile for contiguous repeating units enabling the detection of the repeat region and the repeat type. The proposed approach uses a non-redundant set of 58 Ankyrin proteins to define rules for the detection of Ankyrin repeat motifs. It is evaluated on a set of 370 proteins comprising 125 known Ankyrin proteins and remaining non-solenoid proteins and the prediction compared with UniProt annotation, sequence-based approach, RADAR, and structure-based approach, ConSole. To show the efficacy of the approach, we analyzed the complete PDB structural database and identified 641 previously unrecognized Ankyrin repeat proteins. We observe a unique eigen spectra profile for different repeat types and show that the method can be easily extended to detect other repeat types. It is implemented as a web server, AnkPred. It is freely available at. Conclusions: AnkPred provides an elegant and computationally efficient graph-based approach for detecting Ankyrin structural repeats in proteins. By analyzing the eigen spectra of the protein structure graph and secondary structure information, characteristic features of a known repeat family are identified. This method is especially useful in correctly identifying new members of a repeat family.
Traditionally, prokaryotic channels are thought to exist as homomultimeric assemblies, while many eukaryotic ion channels form complex heteromultimers. Here we demonstrate that bacterial cyclic nucleotide-gated channels likely form heteromultimers in vivo. Heteromultimer formation is indicated through channel modeling, pull-down assays, and real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis. Our observations demonstrate that prokaryotic ion channels can display complex behavior and regulation akin to that of their eukaryotic counterparts.
Molecular docking is a key tool in structural molecular biology and computer-assisted drug design. The goal of ligand—protein docking is to predict the predominant binding mode(s) of a ligand with a protein of known three-dimensional structure. Docking study was performed by Schrodinger-Maestro 9.3.5 Version.In the present study was performed to identify the binding energy, H bond interaction, hydrobhobicity and lipophobicity of ligand ceftriaxone sodium with Apoptosis protein (which is involved in colon cancer). While performing docking simulation, information on feasible conformations of the ligand within the protein binding site can be obtained. This information can also reflect the nature and quality of the interaction. The proteins like caspase-8 (PDB Id: 1QDU), anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-xL (PDB Id: 2O1Y), M20 family metallo peptidase (PDB Id: 2POK), caspase-3 (PDB Id: 2XZT) which displayed superior binding interactions and which possessed highest inhibitory activity among the various selected receptors.
Proteins are a vital constituent of the body as they perform many of its major physiological and biological processes. Recently, proteins and peptides have attracted much attention as potential treatments for various dangerous and traditionally incurable diseases such as cancer, AIDS, dwarfism and autoimmune disorders. Furthermore, proteins could be used for diagnostics. At present, most therapeutic proteins are administered via parenteral routes that have many drawbacks, for example, they are painful, expensive and may cause toxicity. Finding more effective, easier and safer alternative routes for administering proteins and peptides is the key to therapeutic and commercial success. In this context, much research has been focused on non-invasive routes such as nasal, pulmonary, oral, ocular, and rectal for administering proteins and peptides. Unfortunately, the widespread use of proteins and peptides as drugs is still faced by many obstacles such as low bioavailability, short half-life in the blood stream, in vivo instability and numerous other problems. In order to overcome these hurdled and improve protein/peptide drug efficacy, various strategies have been developed such as permeability enhancement, enzyme inhibition, protein structure modification and protection by encapsulation. This review provides a detailed description of all the previous points in order to highlight the importance and potential of proteins and peptides as drugs.
Energy-coupling factor (ECF) transporters are a unique group of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters responsible for micronutrient uptake from the environment. Each ECF transporter is composed of an S component (or EcfS protein) and T/A/A′ components (or EcfT/A/A′ proteins; ECF module). Among the group II ECF transporters, several EcfS proteins share one ECF module; however, the underlying mechanism remains unknown. Here we report the structure of a group II ECF transporter-pantothenate transporter from Lactobacillus brevis (LbECF-PanT), which shares the ECF module with the folate and hydroxymethylpyrimidine transporters (LbECF-FolT and LbECF-HmpT). Structural and mutational analyses revealed the residues constituting the pantothenate-binding pocket. We found that although the three EcfS proteins PanT, FolT, and HmpT are dissimilar in sequence, they share a common surface area composed of the transmembrane helices 1/2/6 (SM1/2/6) to interact with the coupling helices 2/3 (CH2/3) of the same EcfT. CH2 interacts mainly with SM1 via hydrophobic interactions, which may modulate the sliding movement of EcfS. CH3 binds to a hydrophobic surface groove formed by SM1, SM2, and SM6, which may transmit the conformational changes from EcfA/A′ to EcfS. We also found that the residues at the intermolecular surfaces in LbECF-PanT are essential for transporter activity, and that these residues may mediate intermolecular conformational transmission and/or affect transporter complex stability. In addition, we found that the structure of EcfT is conformationally dynamic, which supports its function as a scaffold to mediate the interaction of the ECF module with various EcfS proteins to form different transporter complexes.
Lung adenocarcinomas harboring activating mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) represent a common molecular subset of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cases. EGFR mutations predict sensitivity to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and thus represent a dependency in NSCLCs harboring these alterations, but the genetic basis of EGFR dependence is not fully understood. Here, we applied an unbiased, ORF-based screen to identify genetic modifiers of EGFR dependence in EGFR-mutant NSCLC cells. This approach identified 18 kinase and kinase-related genes whose overexpression can substitute for EGFR in EGFRdependent PC9 cells, and these genes include seven of nine Src family kinase genes, FGFR1, FGFR2, ITK, NTRK1, NTRK2, MOS, MST1R, and RAF1. A subset of these genes can complement loss of EGFR activity across multiple EGFR-dependent models. Unbiased gene-expression profiling of cells overexpressing EGFR bypass genes, together with targeted validation studies, reveals EGFR-independent activation of the MEK-ERK and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT pathways. Combined inhibition of PI3K-mTOR and MEK restores EGFR dependence in cells expressing each of the 18 EGFR bypass genes. Together, these data uncover a broad spectrum of kinases capable of overcoming dependence on EGFR and underscore their convergence on the PI3K-AKT and MEK-ERK signaling axes in sustaining EGFR-independent survival.
Coenzyme A (CoA) mediates thiol-based acyl-group transfer (acetylation and palmitoylation). However, a role for CoA in the thiol-based transfer of NO groups (S-nitrosylation) has not been considered. Here we describe protein S-nitrosylation in yeast (heretofore unknown) that is mediated by S-nitroso-CoA (SNO-CoA). We identify a specific SNO-CoA reductase encoded by the alcohol dehydrogenase 6 (ADH6) gene and showthat deletion of ADH6 increases cellular S-nitrosylation and alters CoA metabolism. Further, we report that Adh6, acting as a selective SNO-CoA reductase, protects acetoacetyl - CoA thiolase from inhibitory S-nitrosylation and thereby affects sterol biosynthesis. Thus, Adh6-regulated, SNO-CoA-mediated protein S-nitrosylation provides a regulatory mechanism paralleling protein acetylation. We also find that SNO-CoA reductases are present from bacteria to mammals, and we identify aldo-keto reductase 1A1 as the mammalian functional analog of Adh6. Our studies reveal a novel functional class of enzymes that regulate protein S-nitrosylation from yeast to mammals and suggest that SNO-CoA-mediated S-nitrosylation may subserve metabolic regulation.
Retinal ischemia is a common feature associated with several ocular diseases, including diabetic retinopathy. In this study, we investigated the effect of a retinal ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) injury on protein levels via a quantitative shotgun strategy using stable isotope dimethyl labeling combined with LC-MS/MS analysis. Based on the relative quantitation data of 1088 proteins, 234 proteins showed a greater than 1.5-fold change following I/R injury, 194 of which were up-regulated and 40 were down-regulated. Gene ontology analysis revealed that after I/R injury, there was an increase in the metabolic-process related proteins but a decline in cell communication, system process and transport-related proteins. A ribosome protein network and a secreted protein network consisting of many protease inhibitors were identified among the up-regulated proteins, despite a suppression of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway following the I/R injury. A synaptic-related protein network was found to be significantly down-regulated, implicating a functional reduction of neurons following a retinal I/R injury. Our results provide new systems-biology clues for the study of retinal ischemia.
The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is highly complex and entails the concerted actions of many enzymes that function to ubiquitinate proteins targeted to the proteasome as well as enzymes that remove and recycle ubiquitin for additional rounds of proteolysis. Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase-L3 (UCH-L3) is a human cytosolic deubiquitinase whose precise biological function is not known. It is believed to hydrolyze small peptides or chemical adducts from the C-terminus of ubiquitin that may be remnant from proteasomal processing. In addition, UCH-L3 is a highly effective biotechnological tool that is used to produce small or unstable peptides/proteins recalcitrant to production in Escherichia coli expression systems. Previous research, which explored the substrate selectivity of UCH-L3, demonstrated a substrate size limitation for proteins/peptides expressed as α-linked C-terminal fusions to ubiquitin and also suggested that an additional substrate property may aff ect UCH-L3 hydrolysis [Larsen, C. N. et al. (1998) Biochemistry 37, 3358-3368]. Using a series of engineered protein substrates, which are similar in size yet differ in secondary structure, we demonstrate that thermal stability is a key factor that significantly affects UCH-L3 hydrolysis. In addition, we show that the thermal stabilities of the engineered substrates are not altered by fusion to ubiquitin and offer a possible mechanism as to how ubiquitin affects the structural and unfolding properties of natural in vivo targets. (Figure Presented)
Auxin is the central hormone that regulates plant growth and organ development. Transcriptional regulation by auxin is mediated by the auxin response factor (ARF) and the repressor, AUX/IAA. Aux/IAA associates with ARF via domain III-IV for transcriptional repression that is reversed by auxin-induced Aux/IAA degradation. It has been known that Aux/IAA and ARF form homoand hetero-oligomers for the transcriptional regulation, but what determines their association states is poorly understood. Here we report, to our knowledge, the first solution structure of domain III-IV of Aux/IAA17 (IAA17), and characterize molecular interactions underlying the homotypic and heterotypic oligomerization. The structure exhibits a compact β-grasp fold with a highly dynamic insert helix that is unique in Aux/IAA family proteins. IAA17 associates to form a heterogeneous ensemble of front-toback oligomers in a concentration-dependent manner. IAA17 and ARF5 associate to form homo- or hetero-oligomers using a common scaffold and binding interfaces, but their affinities vary significantly. The equilibrium dissociation constants (KD) for homo-oligomerization are 6.6 μM and 0.87 μM for IAA17 and ARF5, respectively, whereas hetero-oligomerization reveals a ∼10- to ∼100-fold greater affinity (KD = 73 nM). Thus, individual homooligomers of IAA17 and ARF5 spontaneously exchange their subunits to form alternating hetero-oligomers for transcriptional repression. Oligomerization is mainly driven by electrostatic interactions, so that charge complementarity at the interface determines the binding affinity. Variable binding affinity by surface charge modulation may effectively regulate the complex interaction network between Aux/IAA and ARF family proteins required for the transcriptional control of auxin-response genes.
A major obstacle in the study of membrane proteins is their solubilization in a stable and active conformation when using detergents. Here, we explored a detergent-free approach to isolating the tetrameric potassium channel KcsA directly from the membrane of Escherichia coli, using a styrene-maleic acid copolymer. This polymer self-inserts into membranes and is capable of extracting membrane patches in the form of nanosize discoidal proteolipid particles or "native nanodiscs." Using circular dichroism and tryptophan fluorescence spectroscopy, we show that the conformation of KcsA in native nanodiscs is very similar to that in detergent micelles, but that the thermal stability of the protein is higher in the nanodiscs. Furthermore, as a promising new application, we show that quantitative analysis of the co-isolated lipids in purified KcsA-containing nanodiscs allows determination of preferential lipid-protein interactions. Thin-layer chromatography experiments revealed an enrichment of the anionic lipids cardiolipin and phosphatidylglycerol, indicating their close proximity to the channel in biological membranes and supporting their functional relevance. Finally, we demonstrate that KcsA can be reconstituted into planar lipid bilayers directly from native nanodiscs, which enables functional characterization of the channel by electrophysiology without first depriving the protein of its native environment. Together, these findings highlight the potential of the use of native nanodiscs as a tool in the study of ion channels, and of membrane proteins in general.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Thermal denaturation of Escherichia coli maltodextrin glucosidase was studied by differential scanning calorimetry, circular dichroism (230 nm), and UV-absorption measurements (340 nm), which were respectively used to monitor heat absorption, conformational unfolding, and the production of solution turbidity. The denaturation was irreversible, and the thermal transition recorded at scan rates of 0.5-1.5 K/min was significantly scan-rate dependent, indicating that the thermal denaturation was kinetically controlled. The absence of a protein-concentration effect on the thermal transition indicated that the denaturation was rate-limited by a mono-molecular process. From the analysis of the calorimetric thermograms, a one-step irreversible model well represented the thermal denaturation of the protein. The calorimetrically observed thermal transitions showed excellent coincidence with the turbidity transitions monitored by UV-absorption as well as with the unfolding transitions monitored by circular dichroism. The thermal denaturation of the protein was thus rate-limited by conformational unfolding, which was followed by a rapid irreversible formation of aggregates that produced the solution turbidity. It is thus important to note that the absence of the protein-concentration effect on the irreversible thermal denaturation does not necessarily means the absence of protein aggregation itself. The turbidity measurements together with differential scanning calorimetry in the irreversible thermal denaturation of the protein provided a very effective approach for understanding the mechanisms of the irreversible denaturation. The Arrhenius-equation parameters obtained from analysis of the thermal denaturation were compared with those of other proteins that have been reported to show the onestep irreversible thermal denaturation. Maltodextrin glucosidase had sufficiently high kinetic stability with a half-life of 68 days at a physiological temperature (37 °C).
CSB/ERCC6 (Cockayne syndrome B protein/excision repair cross-complementation group 6), a member of a subfamily of SWI2/SNF2 (SWItch/sucrose nonfermentable)-related chromatin remodelers, plays crucial roles in gene expression and the maintenance of genome integrity. Here, we report the mechanism of the autoregulation of Rhp26, which is the homolog of CSB/ERCC6 in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. We identified a novel conserved protein motif, termed the "leucine latch," at the N terminus of Rhp26. The leucine latch motif mediates the autoinhibition of the ATPase and chromatin-remodeling activities of Rhp26 via its interaction with the core ATPase domain. Moreover, we found that the C terminus of the protein counteracts this autoinhibition and that both the N- and C-terminal regions of Rhp26 are needed for its proper function in DNA repair in vivo. The presence of the leucine latch motif in organisms ranging from yeast to humans suggests a conserved mechanism for the autoregulation of CSB/ERCC6 despite the otherwise highly divergent nature of the N- and C-terminal regions.
Three crucial hurdles hinder studies on human cytomegalovirus (HCMV): strict species specificity, differences between in vivo and in vitro infection, and the complexity of gene regulation. Ever since the sequencing of the whole genome was first accomplished, functional studies on individual genes have been the mainstream in the CMV field. Gene regulation has therefore been elucidated in a more detailed fashion. However, viral gene regulation is largely controlled by both cellular and viral components. In other words, viral gene expression is determined by the virus-host interaction. Generally, cells respond to viral infection in a defensive pattern; at the same time, viruses try to counteract the cellular defense or else hide in the host (latency). Viruses evolve effective strategies against cellular defense in order to achieve replicative success. Whether or not they are successful, cellular defenses remain in the whole viral replication cycle: entry, immediate-early (IE) gene expression, early gene expression, DNA replication, late gene expression, and viral egress. Many viral strategies against cellular defense, and which occur in the immediate-early time of viral infection, have been documented. In this review, we will summarize the documented biological functions of IE1 and pp71 proteins, especially with regard to how they counteract cellular intrinsic defenses.
Transactivation response element (TAR) DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) is the principal component of ubiquitinated inclusions characteristic of most forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia-frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43-positive inclusions (FTLD-TDP), as well as an increasing spectrum of other neurodegenerative diseases. Previous structural and functional studies on TDP-43 have been mostly focused on its recognized domains. Very recently, however, its extreme N terminus was identified to be a double-edged sword indispensable for both physiology and proteinopathy, but thus far its structure remains unknown due to the severe aggregation. Here as facilitated by our previous discovery that protein aggregation can be significantly minimized by reducing salt concentrations, by circular dichroism and NMR spectroscopy we revealed that the TDP-43 N terminus encodes a well-folded structure in concentration-dependent equilibrium with its unfolded form. Despite previous failure in detecting any sequence homology to ubiquitin, the folded state was determined to adopt a novel ubiquitin-like fold by the CS-Rosetta program with NMR chemical shifts and 78 unambiguous longrange nuclear Overhauser effect (NOE) constraints. Remarkably, this ubiquitin-like fold could bind ssDNA, and the binding shifted the conformational equilibrium toward reducing the unfolded population. To the best of our knowledge, the TDP-43 N terminus represents the first ubiquitin-like fold capable of directly binding nucleic acid. Our results provide a molecular mechanism rationalizing the functional dichotomy of TDP-43 and might also shed light on the formation and dynamics of cellular ribonucleoprotein granules, which have been recently linked to ALS pathogenesis. As a consequence, one therapeutic strategy for TDP-43-causing diseases might be to stabilize its ubiquitin-like fold by ssDNA or designed molecules.
How bacteria control proper septum placement at midcell, to guarantee the generation of identical daughter cells, is still largely unknown. Although different systems involved in the selection of the division site have been described in selected species, these do not appear to be widely conserved. Here, we report that LocZ (Spr0334), a newly identified cell division protein, is involved in proper septum placement in Streptococcus pneumoniae. We show that locZ is not essential but that its deletion results in cell division defects and shape deformation, causing cells to divide asymmetrically and generate unequally sized, occasionally anucleated, daughter cells. LocZ has a unique localization profile. It arrives early at midcell, before FtsZ and FtsA, and leaves the septum early, apparently moving along with the equatorial rings that mark the future division sites. Consistently, cells lacking LocZ also show misplacement of the Z-ring, suggesting that it could act as a positive regulator to determine septum placement. LocZ was identified as a substrate of the Ser/Thr protein kinase StkP, which regulates cell division in S. pneumoniae. Interestingly, homologues of LocZ are found only in streptococci, lactococci, and enterococci, indicating that this close phylogenetically related group of bacteria evolved a specific solution to spatially regulate cell division. IMPORTANCE Bacterial cell division is a highly ordered process regulated in time and space. Recently, we reported that the Ser/ Thr protein kinase StkP regulates cell division in Streptococcus pneumoniae, through phosphorylation of several key proteins. Here, we characterized one of the StkP substrates, Spr0334, which we named LocZ. We show that LocZ is a new cell division protein important for proper septum placement and likely functions as a marker of the cell division site. Consistently, LocZ supports proper Z-ring positioning at midcell. LocZ is conserved only among streptococci, lactococci, and enterococci, which lack homologues of the Min and nucleoid occlusion effectors, indicating that these bacteria adapted a unique mechanism to find their middle, reflecting their specific shape and symmetry.
Today's arsenal of antibiotics is ineffective against some emerging strains of antibiotic-resistant pathogens. Novel inhibitors of bacterial growth therefore need to be found. The target of such bacterialgrowth inhibitors must be identified, and one way to achieve this is by locating mutations that suppress their inhibitory effect. Here, we identified five growth inhibitors encoded by T7 bacteriophage. High-throughput sequencing of genomic DNA of resistant bacterial mutants evolving against three of these inhibitors revealed unique mutations in three specific genes.We found that a nonessential host gene, ppiB, is required for growth inhibition by one bacteriophage inhibitor and another nonessential gene, pcnB, is required for growth inhibition by a different inhibitor. Notably, we found a previously unidentified growth inhibitor, gene product (Gp) 0.6, that interacts with the essential cytoskeleton protein MreB and inhibits its function. We further identified mutations in two distinct regions in the mreB gene that overcome this inhibition. Bacterial two-hybrid assay and accumulation of Gp0.6 only in MreB-expressing bacteria confirmed interaction of MreB and Gp0.6. Expression of Gp0.6 resulted in lemon-shaped bacteria followed by cell lysis, as previously reported for MreB inhibitors. The described approach may be extended for the identification of new growth inhibitors and their targets across bacterial species and in higher organisms.
Background: Cell display technologies (e.g. bacterial display) are attractive in directed evolution as they provide the option to use flow-cytometric cell sorting for selection from combinatorial libraries. The aim of this study was to engineer and investigate an expression vector system with dual functionalities: i) recombinant display of Affibody libraries on Escherichia coli for directed evolution and ii) small scale secreted production of candidate affinity proteins, allowing initial downstream characterizations prior to subcloning. Autotransporters form a class of surface proteins in Gram-negative bacteria that have potential for efficient translocation and tethering of recombinant passenger proteins to the outer membrane. We engineered a bacterial display vector based on the E. coli AIDA-I autotransporter for anchoring to the bacterial surface. Potential advantages of employing autotransporters combined with E. coli as host include: high surface expression level, high transformation frequency, alternative promoter systems available, efficient translocation to the outer membrane and tolerance for large multi-domain passenger proteins. Results: The new vector was designed to comprise an expression cassette encoding for an Affibody molecule, three albumin binding domains for monitoring of surface expression levels, an Outer membrane Protease T (OmpT) recognition site for potential protease-mediated secretion of displayed affinity proteins and a histidine-tag for purification. A panel of vectors with different promoters were generated and evaluated, and suitable cultivation conditions were investigated. The results demonstrated a high surface expression level of the different evaluated Affibody molecules, high correlation between target binding and surface expression level, high signal-to-background ratio, efficient secretion and purification of binders in OmpT-positive hosts as well as tight regulation of surface expression for the titratable promoters. Importantly, a mock selection using FACS from a 1:100,000 background yielded around 20,000-fold enrichment in a single round and high viability of the isolated bacteria after sorting. Conclusions: The new expression vectors are promising for combinatorial engineering of Affibody molecules and the strategy for small-scale production of soluble recombinant proteins has the potential to increase throughput of the entire discovery process.
AbstractThe mechanisms underlying autophagy during myocardial ischemia and reperfusion remain unclear. The present study investigated the relationship between high-mobility group box 1 protein (HMGB1) and autophagy in hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R)-induced neonatal rat cardiomyocytes. Neonatal rat cardiomyocytes were treated with recombinant HMGB1 (200 ng/L) or ammonium glycyrrhizinate (100 μM) at appropriate concentrations. Cell viabilities and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine kinase (CK) activity levels were measured. HMGB1, LC3 and Beclin-1 expression were assessed by Western blot. The results demonstrated that HMGB1-induced myocardial cells have increased levels of Beclin-1 protein and even higher levels of LC3 protein, while HMGB1-inhibited myocardial cells have decreased levels of Beclin-1 and LC3 proteins. In addition, HMGB1 induction significantly increased LDH and CK levels in the cell culture medium; the inhibition of HMGB1 significantly reduced LDH and CK expression in cardiomyocyte culture medium. In conclusion, the results of the present study suggest that HMGB1 is able to regulate Beclin-1 and LC3 levels following hypoxia and reoxygenation injury in rat cardiomyocytes.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 17 (SCA17) involves the expression of a polyglutamine (polyQ) expanded TATA-binding protein (TBP), a general transcription initiation factor. TBP interacts with other protein factors, including high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), to regulate gene expression. Previously, our proteomic analysis of soluble proteins prepared from mutant TBP (TBP/Q61) expressing cells revealed a reduced concentration of HMGB1. Here, we show that HMGB1 can be incorporated into mutant TBP aggregates, which leads to reduced soluble HMGB1 levels in TBP/Q61-79 expressing cells. HMGB1 overexpression reduced mutant TBP aggregation. HMGB1 cDNA and siRNA co-transfection, as well as an HSPA5 immunoblot and luciferase reporter assay demonstrated the important role of HMGB1 in the regulation of HSPA5 transcription. In starvation-stressed TBP/Q36 and TBP/Q79 cells, increased reactive oxygen species generation accelerated the cytoplasmic translocation of HMGB1, which accompanied autophagy activation. However, TBP/Q79 cells displayed a decrease in autophagy activation as a result of the reduction in the cytoplasmic HMGB1 level. In neuronal SH-SY5Y cells with induced TBP/Q61-79 expression, HMGB1 expression was reduced and accompanied by a significant reduction in the total outgrowth and branches in the TBP/Q61-79 expressing cells compared with the non-induced cells. The decreased soluble HMGB1 and impaired starvation-induced autophagy in cells suggest that HMGB1 may be a critical modulator of polyQ disease pathology and may represent a target for drug development.
An shRNA-mediated screen of the 48 human nuclear receptor genes identified multiple candidates likely to influence the production of human cytomegalovirus in cultured human fibroblasts, including the estrogen-related receptor α (ERRα), an orphan nuclear receptor. The 50-kDa receptor and a 76-kDa variant were induced posttranscriptionally following infection. Genetic and pharmacological suppression of the receptor reduced viral RNA, protein, and DNA accumulation, as well as the yield of infectious progeny. In addition, RNAs encoding multiple metabolic enzymes, including enzymes sponsoring glycolysis (enolase 1, triosephosphate isomerase 1, and hexokinase 2), were reduced when the function of ERRα was inhibited in infected cells. Consistent with the effect on RNAs, a substantial number of metabolites, which are normally induced by infection, were either not increased or were increased to a reduced extent in the absence of normal ERRαactivity. We conclude that ERRα is needed for the efficient production of cytomegalovirus progeny, and we propose that the nuclear receptor contributes importantly to the induction of a metabolic environment that supports optimal cytomegalovirus replication.
RNA-binding motif protein 38 (Rbm38), also called RNPC1 [RNA-binding region (RNP1, RRM) containing 1], is a target of the p53 family and modulates p53 expression via mRNA translation. To investigate the biological function of Rbm38 in vivo, we generated an Rbm38-null mouse model. We showed that mice deficient in Rbm38 exhibit signs of accelerated aging and are prone to hematopoietic defects and spontaneous tumors. To determine the biological significance of the p53-Rbm38 loop, we showed that Rbm38 deficiency enhances accumulation of p53 induced by ionizing radiation (IR) and sensitizes mice to IR-induced lethality in a p53-dependent manner. Most importantly, Rbm38 deficiency markedly decreases the tumor penetrance in mice heterozygous for p53 via enhanced p53 expression. Interestingly, we found that Rbm38 deficiency shortens the life span of, and promotes lymphomagenesis in, mice deficient in p53. These results provide genetic evidence that Rbm38 is necessary for normal hematopoiesis and for suppressing accelerated aging and tumorigenesis. Thus, the p53-Rbm38 axis might be explored for extending longevity and for tumor suppression.
We describe an integrated workflow for proteogenomic analysis and global profiling of posttranslational modifications (PTMs) in prokaryotes and use the model cyanobacterium Synechococcus sp. PCC 7002 (hereafter Synechococcus 7002) as a test case. We found more than 20 different kinds of PTMs, and a holistic view of PTM events in this organism grown under different conditions was obtained without specific enrichment strategies. Among 3,186 predicted protein-coding genes, 2,938 gene products (>92%) were identified. We also identified 118 previously unidentified proteins and corrected 38 predicted gene-coding regions in the Synechococcus 7002 genome. This systematic analysis not only provides comprehensive information on protein profiles and the diversity of PTMs in Synechococcus 7002 but also provides some insights into photosynthetic pathways in cyanobacteria. The entire proteogenomics pipeline is applicable to any sequenced prokaryotic organism, and we suggest that it should become a standard part of genome annotation projects.
The lactose permease of Escherichia coli (LacY), a highly dynamic polytopic membrane protein, catalyzes stoichiometric galactoside/H+ symport by an alternating access mechanism and exhibits multiple conformations, the distribution of which is altered by sugar binding. We have developed single-domain camelid nanobodies (Nbs) against a LacY mutant in an outward (periplasmic)-open conformation to stabilize this state of the WT protein. Twelve purified Nbs inhibit lactose transport in right-side-out membrane vesicles, indicating that the Nbs recognize epitopes on the periplasmic side of LacY. Stopped-flow kinetics of sugar binding by WT LacY in detergent micelles or reconstituted into proteoliposomes reveals dramatic increases in galactoside-binding rates induced by interaction with the Nbs. Thus, WT LacY in complex with the great majority of the Nbs exhibits varied increases in access of sugar to the binding site with an increase in association rate constants (kon) of up to ∼50-fold (reaching 107 M-1·s-1). In contrast, with the double-Trp mutant, which is already open on the periplasmic side, the Nbs have little effect. The findings are clearly consistent with stabilization of WT conformers with an open periplasmic cavity. Remarkably, some Nbs drastically decrease the rate of dissociation of bound sugar leading to increased affinity (greater than 200-fold for lactose).
Definable surface chemistry is essential for many applications of microfluidic polymer systems. However, small cross-section channels with a high surface to volume ratio enhance passive adsorption of molecules that depletes active molecules in solution and contaminates the channel surface. Here, we present a one-step photochemical process to coat the inner surfaces of closed microfluidic channels with a nanometer thick layer of poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG), well known to strongly reduce non-specific adsorption, using only commercially available reagents in an aqueous environment. The coating consists of PEG diacrylate (PEGDA) covalently grafted to polymer surfaces via UV light activation of the water soluble photoinitiator benzoyl benzylamine, a benzophenone derivative. The PEGDA coating was shown to efficiently limit the adsorption of antibodies and other proteins to <5% of the adsorbed amount on uncoated polymer surfaces. The coating could also efficiently suppress the adhesion of mammalian cells as demonstrated using the HT-29 cancer cell line. In a subsequent equivalent process step, protein in aqueous solution could be anchored onto the PEGDA coating in spatially defined patterns with a resolution of <15μm using an inverted microscope as a projection lithography system. Surface patterns of the cell binding protein fibronectin were photochemically defined inside a closed microfluidic device that was initially homogeneously coated by PEGDA. The resulting fibronectin patterns were shown to greatly improve cell adhesion compared to unexposed areas. This method opens for easy surface modification of closed microfluidic systems through combining a low protein binding PEG-based coating with spatially defined protein patterns of interest.
The HIV-1 envelope spike [trimeric (gp160)3, cleaved to (gp120/gp41)3] is the mediator of viral entry and the principal target of humoral immune response to the virus. Production of a recombinant preparation that represents the functional spike poses a challenge for vaccine development, because the (gp120/gp41)3 complex is prone to dissociation. We have reported previously that stable HIV-1 gp140 trimers, the uncleaved ectodomains of (gp160)3, have nearly all of the antigenic properties expected for native viral spikes. Because of recent claims that uncleaved gp140 proteins may adopt a nonnative structure with three gp120 moieties "dangling" from a trimeric gp41 ectodomain in its postfusion conformation, we have inserted a long, flexible linker between gp120 and gp41 in our stable gp140 trimers to assess their stability and to analyze their conformation in solution. The modified trimer has biochemical and antigenic properties virtually identical to those of its unmodified counterpart. Both forms bind a single CD4 per trimer, suggesting that the trimeric conformation occludes two of the three CD4 sites even when a flexible linker has relieved the covalent constraint between gp120 and gp41. In contrast, an artificial trimer containing three gp120s flexibly tethered to a trimerization tag binds three CD4s and has antigenicity nearly identical to that of monomeric gp120. Moreover, the gp41 part of both modified and unmodified gp140 trimers has a structure very different from that of postfusion gp41. These results show that uncleaved gp140 trimers from suitable isolates have compact, native-like structures and support their use as candidate vaccine immunogens. HIV-1 envelope gp140 immunogen.
Microsporidia have attracted considerable attention because they infect a wide range of hosts, from invertebrates to vertebrates, and cause serious human diseases and major economic losses in the livestock industry. There are no prospective drugs to counteract this pathogen. Eukaryotic protein kinases (ePKs) play a central role in regulating many essential cellular processes and are therefore potential drug targets. In this study, a comprehensive summary and comparative analysis of the protein kinases in four microsporidia-Enterocytozoon bieneusi, Encephalitozoon cuniculi, Nosema bombycis and Nosema ceranae-was performed. The results show that there are 34 ePKs and 4 atypical protein kinases (aPKs) in E. bieneusi, 29 ePKs and 6 aPKs in E. cuniculi, 41 ePKs and 5 aPKs in N. bombycis, and 27 ePKs and 4 aPKs in N. ceranae. These data support the previous conclusion that the microsporidian kinome is the smallest eukaryotic kinome. Microsporidian kinomes contain only serine-threonine kinases and do not contain receptor-like and tyrosine kinases. Many of the kinases related to nutrient and energy signaling and the stress response have been lost in microsporidian kinomes. However, cell cycle-, development- and growth-related kinases, which are important to parasites, are well conserved. This reduction of the microsporidian kinome is in good agreement with genome compaction, but kinome density is negatively correlated with proteome size. Furthermore, the protein kinases in each microsporidian genome are under strong purifying selection pressure. No remarkable differences in kinase family classification, domain features, gain and/or loss, and selective pressure were observed in these four species. Although microsporidia adapt to different host types, the coevolution of microsporidia and their hosts was not clearly reflected in the protein kinases. Overall, this study enriches and updates the microsporidian protein kinase database and may provide valuable information and candidate targets for the design of treatments for pathogenic diseases.
Background: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is an autoimmune connective tissue disease characterised by skin and internal organs fibrosis due to accumulation of extra cellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1 (TIMP-1) plays a key role in ECM deposition. Aim: To investigate the role of miR-29a in regulation of TAB1-mediated TIMP-1 production in dermal fibroblasts in systemic sclerosis. Methods: Healthy control (HC) and SSc fibroblasts were cultured from skin biopsies. The expression of TIMP-1, MMP-1 and TGF-β activated kinase 1 binding protein 1 (TAB1) was measured following miR-29a transfection using ELISA, qRTPCR, and Western Blotting. The functional effect of miR-29a on dermal fibroblasts was assessed in collagen gel assay. In addition, HeLa cells were transfected with 3′UTR of TAB1 plasmid cloned downstream of firefly luciferase gene to assess TAB1 activity. HC fibroblasts and HeLa cells were also transfected with Target protectors in order to block the endogenous miR-29a activity. Results: We found that TAB1 is a novel target gene of miR-29a, also regulating downstream TIMP-1 production. TAB1 is involved in TGF-β signal transduction, a key cytokine triggering TIMP-1 production. To confirm that TAB1 is a bona fide target gene of miR-29a, we used a TAB1 3′UTR luciferase assay and Target protector system. We showed that miR-29a not only reduced TIMP-1 secretion via TAB1 repression, but also increased functional MMP-1 production resulting in collagen degradation. Blocking TAB1 activity by pharmacological inhibition or TAB1 knockdown resulted in TIMP-1 reduction, confirming TAB1-dependent TIMP-1 regulation. Enhanced expression of miR-29a was able to reverse the profibrotic phenotype of SSc fibroblasts via downregulation of collagen and TIMP-1. Conclusions: miR-29a repressed TAB1-mediated TIMP-1 production in dermal fibroblasts, demonstrating that miR-29a may be a therapeutic target in SSc.
Introduction: Transducer of Cdc42-dependent actin assembly-1 (Toca-1) recruits actin regulatory proteins to invadopodia, and promotes breast tumor metastasis. Since metastatic breast tumors frequently harbor mutations in the tumor suppressor p53, we tested whether p53 regulates Toca-1 expression. Methods: Normal mammary epithelial cells (HBL-100, MCF10A) and breast cancer cell lines expressing wild-type (WT) p53 (DU4475, MTLn3) were treated with camptothecin or Nutlin-3 to stabilize p53 to test effects on Toca-1 mRNA and protein levels. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays were performed to identify p53 binding site in Toca-1 gene. Stable silencing of p53 and Toca-1 were performed in MTLn3 cells to test effects on invadopodia and cell invasion in vitro, and tumor metastasis in vivo. Results: We observed that breast cancer cell lines with mutant p53 have high levels of Toca-1 compared to those with WT p53. Stabilization of WT p53 led to further reduction in Toca-1 mRNA and protein levels in normal breast epithelial cells and breast cancer cells. ChIP assays revealed p53 binding within intron 2 of toca1, and reduced histone acetylation within its promoter region upon p53 upregulation or activation. Stable silencing of WT p53 in MTLn3 cells led to increased extracellular matrix degradation and cell invasion compared to control cells. Interestingly, the combined silencing of p53 and Toca-1 led to a partial rescue of these effects of p53 silencing in vitro and reduced lung metastases in mice. In human breast tumors, Toca-1 levels were high in subtypes with frequent p53 mutations, and high Toca-1 transcript levels correlated with increased risk of relapse. Conclusions: Based on these findings, we conclude that loss of p53 tumor suppressor function in breast cancers leads to upregulation of Toca-1, and results in enhanced risk of developing metastatic disease.
Thyroid hormone receptor (TR) mediates the crucial effects of the thyroid hormone (T3) on cellular growth, development, and differentiation. Decreased expression or inactivating somatic mutations of TRs have been found in human cancers of the liver, breast, lung, and thyroid. The mechanisms of TR-associated carcinogenesis are still not clear. To establish the function of TRβ in thyroid cancer cell proliferation, we constructed a recombinant adenovirus vector, AdTRβ, which expresses human TRβ1 cDNA. Thyroid cancer cell lines in which TRβ protein levels were significantly decreased as compared to intact thyroid tissues were infected with AdTRβ and the function of TRβ on cell proliferation and migration was analyzed. Ligand-bound TRβ induced HDAC1 and HDAC3 dissociation from, and histone acetylation associated with the RhoB promoter and enhanced the expression of RhoB mRNA and protein. In AdTRβ-infected cells, T3 and farnesyl transferase inhibitor (FTI)-treatment induced the distribution of RhoB on the cell membrane and enhanced the abundance of active GTP-bound RhoB. This RhoB protein led to p21-associated cell-cycle arrest in the G0/G1 phase, following inhibition of cell proliferation and invasion. Conversely, lowering cellular RhoB by small interfering RNA knockdown in AdTRβ-infected cells led to downregulation of p21 and inhibited cell-cycle arrest. The growth of BHP18-21v tumor xenografts in vivo was significantly inhibited by AdTRβ injection with FTIs-treatment, as compared to control virus-injected tumors. This novel signaling pathway triggered by ligand-bound TRβ provides insight into possible mechanisms of proliferation and invasion of thyroid cancer and may provide new therapeutic targets for thyroid cancers.
Upon infection of susceptible cells by HIV-1, the conical capsid formed by ∼250 hexamers and 12 pentamers of the CA protein is delivered to the cytoplasm. The capsid shields the RNA genome and proteins required for reverse transcription. In addition, the surface of the capsid mediates numerous host-virus interactions, which either promote infection or enable viral restriction by innate immune responses. In the intact capsid, there is an intermolecular interface between the N-terminal domain (NTD) of one subunit and the C-terminal domain (CTD) of the adjacent subunit within the same hexameric ring. The NTD-CTD interface is critical for capsid assembly, both as an architectural element of the CA hexamer and pentamer and as a mechanistic element for generating lattice curvature. Here we report biochemical experiments showing that PF-3450074 (PF74), a drug that inhibits HIV-1 infection, as well as host proteins cleavage and polyadenylation specific factor 6 (CPSF6) and nucleoporin 153 kDa (NUP153), bind to the CA hexamer with at least 10-fold higher affinities compared with nonassembled CA or isolated CA domains. The crystal structure of PF74 in complex with the CA hexamer reveals that PF74 binds in a preformed pocket encompassing the NTD-CTD interface, suggesting that the principal inhibitory target of PF74 is the assembled capsid. Likewise, CPSF6 binds in the same pocket. Given that the NTD-CTD interface is a specificmolecular signature of assembled hexamers in the capsid, binding of NUP153 at this site suggests that key features of capsid architecture remain intact upon delivery of the preintegration complex to the nucleus.
Backgrounds: The cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB) plays an important role in neuropathic pain. Kinesin superfamily motor protein 17 (KIF17) is involved in long-term memory formation. CREB could increase the level of KIF17 when activated by synaptic input. This study is to investigate the role and mechanism of CREB antisense oligonucleotide (ODN) in neuropathic pain induced by chronic constriction injury (CCI) in mice. Results: CCI surgery decreased thresholds of mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia whereas CREB antisense oligonucleotide ODN significantly attenuated these pain behaviors (P < 0.05). CCI significantly induced the protein expression of phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) and KIF17, but not KIF5B, in the spinal cord of CCI mice (P < 0.05). Additionally, the mRNA expression of CREB and KIF17 was significantly increased by CCI (P < 0.05). However, CREB antisense ODN significantly decreased the protein expression of pCREB and KIF17 (but not KIF5B), and the mRNA expression of CREB and KIF17 (P < 0.05). Conclusions: CREB antisense oligonucleotide ODN may reduce neuropathic pain through targeting CREB and decreasing the expression of pCREB and KIF17.
An analysis of high-sensitive factor I and C-reactive proteins as biomarkers for coronary artery disease has been performed from 19 anticipated cohort studies that included 21,567 participants having no information about coronary artery disease. Besides, the clinical implications of statin therapy initiated due to assessment of factor I and C-reactive proteins have also been modeled during studies. The measure of risk discrimination (C-index) was increased (by 0.0101) as per the prognostic model for coronary artery disease with respect to sex, smoking status, age, blood pressure, total cholesterol level along with diabetic history characteristic parameters. The C-index was further raised by 0.0045 and 0.0053 when factor I and C-reactive proteins based information were added, respec­tively which finally predicted 10-year risk categories as: high (> 20%), medium (10% to < 20%), and low (< 10%) risks. We found 2,254 persons (among 15,000 adults (age ≥ 45 years)) would initially be classified as being at medium risk for coronary artery disease when only conventional risk factors were used as calculated risk. Besides, persons with a predicted risk of more than 20% as well as for persons suffering from other risk factors (i.e. diabe­tes), statin therapy was initiated (irrespective of their decade old predicted risk). We conclude that under current treatment guidelines assessment of factor I and C-reactive proteins levels (as biomarker) in people at medium risk for coronary artery disease could prevent one additional coronary artery disease risk over a period a decade for every 390-500 people screened.
; licensee Springer.The prevention of muscle wasting is important for maintaining quality of life, since loss of muscle mass can lead to a bedridden state and decreased resistance to diseases. The prevention of muscle wasting requires an increase in protein synthesis and a decrease in protein degradation in skeletal muscle. We previously showed that lysine (Lys) markedly suppressed myofibrillar protein degradation by inhibiting the autophagic-lysosomal system via the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and other signal molecules in C2C12 cells. In this study, we investigated the involvement of Akt and adenosine 5′-monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase (AMPK), two regulators of autophagy, on the suppressive effects of Lys on myofibrillar protein degradation in C2C12 cells. Lys induced the phosphorylation of Akt, but the suppressive effects of Lys on myofibrillar protein degradation and autophagy were completely abolished in the presence of Akt1/2 kinase inhibitor (Akti). Lys suppressed the phosphorylation of AMPK, but this effect was also abolished by Akti. On the other hand, AMPK activation by 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-D-ribonucleoside (AICAR) did not affect either Akt activity or the autophagic-lysosomal system in C2C12 cells treated with Lys. These results indicate that regulation of AMPK activity is not essential for the regulation of autophagy by Lys. Taken together, our results show that Lys suppresses myofibrillar protein degradation by the autophagic-lysosomal system through the phosphorylation of Akt in C2C12 cells.
Genetic redundancy and pleiotropism have limited the discovery of functions associated with miRNAs and other regulatory mechanisms. To overcome this, we performed an enhancer screen for developmental defects caused by compromising both global miRISC function and individual genes in Caenorhabditis elegans. Among 126 interactors with miRNAs, we surprisingly found the CED-3 caspase that has only been well studied for its role in promoting apoptosis, mostly through protein activation. We provide evidence for a non-apoptotic function of CED-3 caspase that regulates multiple developmental events through proteolytic inactivation. Specifically, LIN-14, LIN-28, and DISL-2 proteins are known miRNA targets, key regulators of developmental timing, and/or stem cell pluripotency factors involved in miRNA processing. We show CED-3 cleaves these proteins in vitro. We also show CED-3 down-regulates LIN-28 in vivo, possibly rendering it more susceptible to proteasomal degradation. This mechanism may critically contribute to the robustness of gene expression dynamics governing proper developmental control.
Sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) possesses apparently dual roles in regulation of tumor. Previous reports have documented the crosstalk between SIRT1 with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) signaling in leukemia, lymphoma and myeloma. In this study, the purpose was to survey the regulatory effects of SIRT1 on gastric cancer (GC) cells (AGS and MKN-45) and the relationships between SIRT1 and activation of STAT3 and NF-κB in GC cells. We found the SIRT1 activator (resveratrol RSV) contributed to the repression of viability and increase of senescence, which were rescued by SIRT1 inhibitor (nicotinamide NA) and SIRT1 depletion by CCK-8 assay and SA-β-gal assay respectively. Further study found SIRT1 activation (RSV supplement) not only inhibited the activation of STAT3 including STAT3 mRNA level, c-myc mRNA level phosphorylated STAT3 (pSTAT3) proteins and acetylizad STAT3 (acSTAT3) proteins, but also repression of pNF-κB p65 and acNF-κB p65. NA reversed the effects of RSV. In addition, either RSV or NA application could not change the cellular viability and senescence in MKN-45 cells with STAT3 knockdown or NF-κB knockdown. Overall, our findings suggested SIRT1 activation could induced the loss of viability and increases of senescence in GC in vitro. Moreover, our observations revealed SIRT1 displayed growth inhibitory activity in GC cells highly associated with causing repression of activation of STAT3 and NF-κB proteins via deacetylation.
(Figure Presented) Agrobacterium tumefaciens (At) strain C58 contains an oxidative enzyme pathway that can function on both D-glucuronic and D-galacturonic acid. The corresponding gene coding for At keto-deoxy-D-galactarate (KDG) dehydratase is located in the same gene cluster as those coding for uronate dehydrogenase (At Udh) and galactarolactone cycloisomerase (At Gci) which we have previously characterized. Here, we present the kinetic characterization and crystal structure of At KDG dehydratase, which catalyzes the next step, the decarboxylating hydrolyase reaction of KDG to produce α-ketoglutaric semialdehyde (α-KGSA) and carbon dioxide. The crystal structures of At KDG dehydratase and its complexes with pyruvate and 2-oxoadipic acid, two substrate analogues, were determined to 1.7 A˚, 1.5 A˚, and 2.1 A˚ resolution, respectively. Furthermore, mass spectrometry was used to confirm reaction end-products. The results lead us to propose a structure-based mechanism for At KDG dehydratase, suggesting that while the enzyme belongs to the Class I aldolase protein family, it does not follow a typical retro-aldol condensation mechanism.
The irreversible loss of cardiomyocytes remains a key problem to resolve, which forms the cellular basis of cardiac dysfunction. MSCs transplantation brings out a promising potential for myocardial renovation with less limitations. However, this cell transplantation therapy is limited by its poor viability after transplantation. Apoptosis is thought to be the major factor that affects the efficiency of MSCs transplantation. Therefore, exploring the process of apoptosis and the underlying mechanisms of MSCs in the ‘harmful’ microenvironment is significant for the sake of improving the efficiency of MSCs transplantation therapy. A hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) model of MSCs had been established. TUNEL, Hoechst staining and MTT were used for the evaluation of morphological changes, cell viability and apoptosis. Mitochondrial transmembrane potential was detected by JC-1 using the fluorescence microscopy system. The protein expression of cytochrome c, p-ERK, p-AKT, Bcl-2, Bax, p-JNK, HIF-1α and VEGF was assessed for the analysis of protein changes using the Western blot. In our study, H/R insult lead to apoptosis and cell viability lost in a time-dependent manner in MSCs. Multiple pathways were involved in the apoptosis of MSCs, including cytochrome c released from mitochondria to cytosol, mitochondrial transmembrane potential lost. In addition, p-ERK and p-AKT were downregulated, while Bcl-2, p-JNK and VEGF were upregulated. H/R induced the apoptosis in MSCs is through multiple pathways. These multiple pathways will be helpful for understanding and explaining the process and mechanism of apoptosis in MSCs.
Serotonin (5-HT) transporter (SERT) regulates the level of 5-HT in placenta. Initially, we found that in gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), whereas free plasma 5-HT levels were elevated, the 5-HT uptake rates of trophoblast were significantly down-regulated, due to impairment in the translocation of SERT molecules to the cell surface. We sought to determine the factors mediating the down-regulation of SERT in GDM trophoblast. We previously reported that an endoplasmic reticulum chaperone, ERp44, binds to Cys200 and Cys209 residues of SERT to build a disulfide bond. Following this posttranslational modification, before trafficking to the plasma membrane, SERT must be dissociated from ERp44; and this process is facilitated by insulin signaling and reversed by the insulin receptor blocker AGL2263. However, the GDM-associated defect in insulin signaling hampers the dissociation of ERp44 from SERT. Furthermore, whereas ERp44 constitutively occupies Cys200/Cys209 residues, one of the SERT glycosylation sites, Asp208 located between the two Cys residues, cannot undergo proper glycosylation, which plays an important role in the uptake efficiency of SERT. Herein, we show that the decrease in 5-HT uptake rates of GDM trophoblast is the consequence of defective insulin signaling, which entraps SERT with ERp44 and impairs its glycosylation. In this regard, restoring the normal expression of SERT on the trophoblast surface may represent a novel approach to alleviating some GDM-associated complications.
Myosin binding protein-C (MyBP-C) is a key regulatory protein in heart muscle, and mutations in the MYBPC3 gene are frequently associated with cardiomyopathy. However, the mechanism of action of MyBP-C remains poorly understood, and both activating and inhibitory effects of MyBP-C on contractility have been reported. To clarify the function of the regulatory N-terminal domains of MyBP-C, we determined their effects on the structure of thick (myosin-containing) and thin (actin-containing) filaments in intact sarcomeres of heart muscle. We used fluorescent probes on troponin C in the thin filaments and on myosin regulatory light chain in the thick filaments to monitor structural changes associated with activation of demembranated trabeculae from rat ventricle by the C1mC2 region of rat MyBP-C. C1mC2 induced larger structural changes in thin filaments than calcium activation, and these were still present when active force was blocked with blebbistatin, showing that C1mC2 directly activates the thin filaments. In contrast, structural changes in thick filaments induced by C1mC2 were smaller than those associated with calcium activation and were abolished or reversed by blebbistatin. Low concentrations of C1mC2 did not affect resting force but increased calcium sensitivity and reduced cooperativity of force and structural changes in both thin and thick filaments. These results show that the N-terminal region of MyBP-C stabilizes the ON state of thin filaments and the OFF state of thick filaments and lead to a novel hypothesis for the physiological role of MyBP-C in the regulation of cardiac contractility.
In single-cell eukaryotes the pathways that monitor nutrient availability are central to initiating the meiotic program and gametogenesis. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae an essential step in the transition to the meiotic cycle is the down-regulation of the nutrient-sensitive target of rapamycin complex 1 (TORC1) by the increased minichromosome loss 1/ GTPase-activating proteins toward Rags 1 (Iml1/GATOR1) complex in response to amino acid starvation. How metabolic inputs influence early meiotic progression and gametogenesis remains poorly understood in metazoans. Here we define opposing functions for the TORC1 regulatory complexes Iml1/GATOR1 and GATOR2 during Drosophila oogenesis. We demonstrate that, as is observed in yeast, the Iml1/GATOR1 complex inhibits TORC1 activity to slow cellular metabolism and drive the mitotic/meiotic transition in developing ovarian cysts. In iml1 germline depletions, ovarian cysts undergo an extra mitotic division before meiotic entry. The TORC1 inhibitor rapamycin can suppress this extra mitotic division. Thus, high TORC1 activity delays the mitotic/meiotic transition. Conversely, mutations in Tor, which encodes the catalytic subunit of the TORC1 complex, result in premature meiotic entry. Later in oogenesis, the GATOR2 components Mio and Seh1 are required to oppose Iml1/GATOR1 activity to prevent the constitutive inhibition of TORC1 and a block to oocyte growth and development. To our knowledge, these studies represent the first examination of the regulatory relationship between the Iml1/GATOR1 and GATOR2 complexes within the context of a multicellular organism. Our data imply that the central role of the Iml1/GATOR1 complex in the regulation of TORC1 activity in the early meiotic cycle has been conserved from single cell to multicellular organisms.
; licensee BioMed Central. Background: The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase/extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (MEK/ERK) signaling pathway is involved in viral life cycle. However, the effect of MEK/ERK pathway in enterovirus 71(EV71)-infected immature dendritic cells (iDCs) is still unclear. Methods: Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated and induced to generate iDCs. Unifected iDCs and EV71-infected iDCs with a multiplicity of infection (MOI = 5) were analyzed by flow cytometry. Differential gene expressions of MEK/ERK signaling pathway molecules in EV71-infected iDCs were performed by PCR arrays. The phosphorylation of MEK/ERK pathway molecules in EV71-infected iDCs preincubated without or with U0126 (20 μM) at indicated times was detected by Western blot. The concentrations of IL-1α, IL-2, IL-6, IL-12, TNF-α, IFN-α1, IFN-β and IFN-γ in culture supernatant were analyzed by the luminex fluorescent technique. Results: When iDCs were infected with EV71 for 24 h, the percentage of CD80, CD83, CD86 and HLA-DR expressed on iDCs significantly increased. PCR arrays showed that gene expressions of molecules in MEK/ERK signaling pathway were remarkably upregulated in EV71-infected iDCs. EV71 infection activated both MEK1/2 and ERK1/2, which phosphorylated their downstream transcription factor c-Fos, c-Jun, c-myc and Elk1. Importantly, the treatment of U0126 significantly inhibited MEK/ERK signaling pathway molecules and severely impaired virus replication., Additionally, EV71 infection promoted the expression of son of sevenless (SOS1) and increased the secretion of IL-1α, IL-2, IL-6, IL-12, TNF-α,IFN-β and IFN-γ. Furthermore,the release of IL-1α, IL-2,IL-6 and TNF-α could be effectively suppressed by inhibitor U0126. Conclusions: Our data suggest that the MEK/ERK signaling pathway plays an important role in EV71-infected iDCs and these molecules may be potential targets for the development of new anti-EV71 drugs.
(Chemical Equation Presented) Factor inhibiting HIF (FIH) is a cellular O2-sensing enzyme, which hydroxylates the hypoxia inducible factor-1α. Previously reported inverse solvent kinetic isotope effects indicated that FIH limits its overall turnover through an O2 activation step (Hangasky, J. A., Saban, E., and Knapp, M. J. (2013) Biochemistry 52, 1594-1602). Here we characterize the rate-limiting step for O2 activation by FIH using a suite of mechanistic probes on the second order rate constant kcat/KM(O2). Steady-state kinetics showed that the rate constant for O2 activation was slow (kcat/KM(O2)app = 3500 M-1 s-1) compared with other non-heme iron oxygenases, and solvent viscosity assays further excluded diffusional encounter with O2 from being rate limiting on kcat/KM(O2). Competitive oxygen-18 kinetic isotope effect measurements (18kcat/KM(O2) = 1.0114(5)) indicated that the transition state for O2 activation resembled a cyclic peroxohemiketal, which precedes the formation of the ferryl intermediate observed in related enzymes. We interpret this data to indicate that FIH limits its overall activity at the point of the nucleophilic attack of Fe-bound O2- on the C-2 carbon of αKG. Overall, these results show that FIH follows the consensus mechanism for αKG oxygenases, suggesting that FIH may be an ideal enzyme to directly access steps involved in O2 activation among the broad family of αKG oxygenases.
; licensee BioMed Central. Small GTPases are monomeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins. In plants, ROPs regulate plant cell polarity, plant cell differentiation and development as well as biotic and abiotic stress signaling pathways. Results: We report the subcellular localization of the AtRop1 protein at the plasma membrane in tobacco epidermal cells using GFP fusions. Additionally, transient and stable expression of a dominant negative form (DN) of the AtRop1 in potato led to HO accumulation associated with the reduced development of de Bary and smaller lesions on infected potato leaves. The expression of the gene, a NADPH oxidase homologue in potato, was analyzed by RT-PCR. Expression of this gene was maintained in DN-AtRop1 transgenic plants after infection with In transgenic potato lines, the transcript levels of salicylic acid (SA) and jasmonic acid (JA) marker genes (respectively) were analyzed. The gene was induced dramatically whereas expression of, a gene up-regulated by SA, decreased slightly in DN-AtRop1 transgenic plants after infection with. Conclusions: In conclusion, our results indicate that DN-AtROP1 affects potato resistance to This is associated with increased NADPH oxidase-mediated HO production and JA signaling.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) causes visual impairment in working age adults and hyperglycemia-mediated inflammation is central in DR. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play a key role in innate immune responses and inflammation. However, scanty data is available on their role in DR. Hence, in this study, we examined TLR2 and TLR4 mRNA and protein expression and activity in hyperglycemic human retinal endothelial cells (HMVRECs). HMVRECs were treated with hyperglycemia (HG) or euglycemia and mRNA and protein levels of TLR-2, TLR-4, MyD88, IRF3, and TRIF as well as NF-B p65 activation were measured. IL-8, IL-1β, TNF- and MCP-1, ICAM-1, and VCAM-1 as well as monocyte adhesion to HMVRECs were also assayed. HG (25 mM) significantly induced TLR2 and TLR4 mRNA and protein in HMVRECs. It also increased both MyD88 and non-MyD88 pathways, nuclear factor-B (NF-B), biomediators, and monocyte adhesion. This inflammation was attenuated by TLR-4 or TLR-2 inhibition, and dual inhibition by a TLR inhibitory peptide as well as TLR2 and 4 siRNA. Additionally, antioxidant treatment reduced TLR-2 and TLR4 expression and downstream inflammatory markers. Collectively, our novel data suggest that hyperglycemia induces TLR-2 and TLR-4 activation and downstream signaling mediating increased inflammation possibly via reactive oxygen species (ROS) and could contribute to DR.
Objective To explore ihe effects of membrane skeleton protein 4. 1R on the efficiency of photodynamic therapy (PDT). Methods 4. 1R gene knockout and wild-type mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( MEFs) were incubated with various concentrations of 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-AI.A) (0. 25 , 0. 50, 1. 00, 1. 50 and 2. 00 mmol/L) , followed by exposure to 450 nm light at a dose of 72, 96, 120, 180, 240 mj/ cm". Cell counting kit 8 ( CCK-8) assay was used to assess the survival rate after PDT treatment. Laser confocal microscopy was used to observe the location of photo-sensitizer protoporphyrin and fluorescence spectrophotometer for detecting the fluorescent intensity of intracellular protoporphyrin. The protein levels of rate-limiting enzyme of protoporphyrin synthesis, ferrochelatase (FECH) and hydroxymethylbilane synthase (HMBS) were determined by Western blot. Results Both cell lines were killed after 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA)-PDT and its efficacy was dependent on 5-ALA concentration, incubation duration and light dose. The cell survival rates of 4.MEF were significantly higher than those of 4. 1R + /+ MEF (46.9% ± 7. 1% vs 12. 5% ±2. 1% , P <0. 001) after PDT treatment with a light dose of 120 mj/cm2 mediated by 5- ALA 1.00 mmol/L. After incubation with 1.00 mmol/L 5-ALA, protoporphyrin was distributed throughout cytoplasm in both cell lines while the fluorescent intensity of 4. 1 R+/+ MFF was higher than that of 4. 1R 7 MEF (124. 2 ± 3. 5 vs 34. 6 ± 3. 8 , P < 0. 001 ) . Western blot showed that no difference of FECH and HMBS protein level was found in two cell lines. Conclusions A lack of protein 4. 1 R may attenuate the intracellular protoporphyrin level and the photo-cytotoxicitv of PDT. No cellular change of ALA metabolic activity is found. Protein 4. 1R may be involved in the ALA uptake in MEF cells so that the cellular level of protoporphyrin ultimately affects the PDT efficiency.
A disintegrin and metalloprotease with thrombospondin motifs 13 (ADAMTS13) is a metalloprotease that regulates von Willebrand factor (VWF) function. ADAMTS13-mediated proteolysis is determined by conformational changes in VWF, but also may depend on its own conformational activation. Kinetic analysis of WT ADAMTS13 revealed ∼2.5-fold reduced activity compared with ADAMTS13 lacking its C-terminal tail (MDTCS) or its CUB1-2 domains (WTΔCUB1-2), suggesting that the CUB domains naturally limit ADAMTS13 function. Consistent with this suggestion, WT ADAMTS13 activity was enhanced ∼2.5-fold by preincubation with either an anti-CUB mAb (20E9) or VWF D4CK (the natural binding partner for the CUB domains). Furthermore, the isolated CUB1-2 domains not only bound MDTCS, but also inhibited activity by up to 2.5-fold. Interestingly, a gain-of-function (GoF) ADAMTS13 spacer domain variant (R568K/F592Y/R660K/Y661F/Y665F) was ∼2.5-fold more active than WT ADAMTS13, but could not be further activated by 20E9 mAb or VWF D4CK and was unable to bind or to be inhibited by the CUB1-2 domains, suggesting that the inhibitory effects of the CUB domains involve an interaction with the spacer domain that is disrupted in GoF ADAMTS13. Electron microscopy demonstrated a "closed" conformation of WT ADAMTS13 and suggested a more "open" conformation for GoF ADAMTS13. The cryptic spacer domain epitope revealed by conformational unfolding also represents the core antigenic target for autoantibodies in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. We propose that ADAMTS13 circulates in a closed conformation, which is maintained by a CUB-spacer domain binding interaction. ADAMTS13 becomes conformationally activated on demand through interaction of its C-terminal CUB domains with VWF, making it susceptible to immune recognition.
Tuberculosis has reemerged as a serious threat to human health because of the increasing prevalence of drug-resistant strains and synergetic infection with HIV, prompting an urgent need for new and more efficient treatments. The PhoP-PhoR two-component system of Mycobacterium tuberculosis plays an important role in the virulence of the pathogen and thus represents a potential drug target. To study the mechanism of gene transcription regulation by response regulator PhoP, we identified a high-affinity DNA sequence for PhoP binding using systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment. The sequence contains a direct repeat of two 7 bp motifs separated by a 4 bp spacer, TCACAGC(N4)TCACAGC. The specificity of the direct-repeat sequence for PhoP binding was confirmed by isothermal titration calorimetry and electrophoretic mobility shift assays. PhoP binds to the direct repeat as a dimer in a highly cooperative manner. We found many genes previously identified to be regulated by PhoP that contain the direct-repeat motif in their promoter sequences. Synthetic DNA fragments at the putative promoter-binding sites bind PhoP with variable a ffinity, which is related to the number of mismatches in the 7 bp motifs, the positions of the mismatches, and the spacer and fl anking sequences. Phosphorylation of PhoP increases the affinity but does not change the speci ficity of DNA binding. Overall, our results confirm the direct-repeat sequence as the consensus motif for PhoP binding and thus pave the way for identi fication of PhoP directly regulated genes in different mycobacterial genomes. (Graph Presented).
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are transcripts longer than 200 nucleotides, located within the intergenic stretches or overlapping antisense transcripts of protein coding genes. LncRNAs are involved in numerous biological roles including imprinting, epigenetic regulation, apoptosis, and cell cycle. To determine whether lncRNAs are associated with clinical features and recurrent mutations in older patients (aged ≥60 y) with cytogenetically normal (CN) acute myeloid leukemia (AML), we evaluated lncRNA expression in 148 untreated older CN-AML cases using a custom microarray platform. An independent set of 71 untreated older patients with CN-AML was used to validate the outcome scores using RNA sequencing. Distinctive lncRNA profiles were found associated with selected mutations, such as internal tandem duplications in the FLT3 gene (FLT3-ITD) and mutations in the NPM1, CEBPA, IDH2, ASXL1, and RUNX1 genes. Using the lncRNAs most associated with event-free survival in a training cohort of 148 older patients with CN-AML, we derived a lncRNA score composed of 48 lncRNAs. Patients with an unfavorable compared with favorable lncRNA score had a lower complete response (CR) rate [P < 0.001, odds ratio = 0.14, 54% vs. 89%], shorter disease-free survival (DFS) [P < 0.001, hazard ratio (HR) = 2.88] and overall survival (OS) (P < 0.001, HR = 2.95). The validation set analyses confirmed these results (CR, P = 0.03; DFS, P = 0.009; OS, P = 0.009). Multivariable analyses for CR, DFS, and OS identified the lncRNA score as an independent marker for outcome. In conclusion, lncRNA expression in AML is closely associated with recurrent mutations. A small subset of lncRNAs is correlated strongly with treatment response and survival.
Communication between cancer cells and their microenvironment controls cancer progression. Although the tumor suppressor p53 functions in a cell-autonomous manner, it has also recently been shown to function in a non-cell-autonomous fashion. Although functional defects have been reported in p53 in stromal cells surrounding cancer, including mutations in the p53 gene and decreased p53 expression, the role of p53 in stromal cells during cancer progression remains unclear. We herein show that the expression of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), a marker of cancerassociated fibroblasts (CAFs), was increased by the ablation of p53 in lung fibroblasts. CAFs enhanced the invasion and proliferation of lung cancer cells when cocultured with p53-depleted fibroblasts and required contact between cancer and stromal cells. A comprehensive analysis using a DNA chip revealed that tetraspanin 12 (TSPAN12), which belongs to the tetraspanin protein family, was derepressed by p53 knockdown. TSPAN12 knockdown in p53-depleted fibroblasts inhibited cancer cell proliferation and invasion elicited by coculturing with p53-depleted fibroblasts in vitro, and inhibited tumor growth in vivo. It also decreased CXC chemokine ligand 6 (CXCL6) secretion through the β-catenin signaling pathway, suggesting that cancer cell contact with TSPAN12 in fibroblasts transduced β-catenin signaling into fibroblasts, leading to the secretion of CXCL6 to efficiently promote invasion. These results suggest that stroma-derived p53 plays a pivotal role in epithelial cancer progression and that TSPAN12 and CXCL6 are potential targets for lung cancer therapy.
In the present study, we investigated the roles of PDCD5 (programmed cell death 5) in multidrug re-sistance (MDR) of osteosarcoma cells and the possible lurking mechanisms. An adenovirus expression vector of PDCD5 was constructed and transfected into human adriamycin-resistant osteosarcoma cell line Saos-2/ADM. We found that up-regulation of PDCD5 could significantly enhance the sensitivity of Saos-2/ADM cells towards vincristine, methotrexate, cisplatin and arsenic trioxide (As2O3), and could decrease the capacity of cells to efflux adriamycin. PDCD5 could significantly down regulate the expression of P-glycoprotein (Pgp), but not affect the expression of multidrug resistance associated protein (MRP) or the glutathione S-transferase (GST). PDCD5 was also able to significantly increase the apoptotic activity of modified osteosarcoma cells. Further study of the biological functions of PDCD5 might be helpful in the understanding of the mechanisms of multidrug resistance (MDR) in osteosarcoma and exploring PDCD5 based adjuvant genetic therapy.
