This study aimed to analyze epigenetically and genetically altered genes in melanoma to get a better understanding of the molecular circuitry of melanoma and identify potential gene targets for the treatment of melanoma. The microarray data of GSE31879, including mRNA expression profiles (seven melanoma and four melanocyte samples) and DNA methylation profiles (seven melanoma and five melanocyte samples), were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially methylated positions (DMPs) were screened using the linear models for microarray data (limma) package in melanoma compared with melanocyte samples. Gene ontology (GO) and pathway enrichment analysis of the DEGs were carried out using the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery. Moreover, differentially methylated genes (DMGs) were identified, and a transcriptional regulatory network was constructed using the University of California Santa Cruz genome browser database. A total of 1,215 DEGs (199 upregulated and 1,016 downregulated) and 14,094 DMPs (10,450 upregulated and 3,644 downregulated) were identified in melanoma compared with melanocyte samples. Additionally, the upregulated and downregulated DEGs were significantly associated with different GO terms and pathways, such as pigment cell differentiation, biosynthesis, and metabolism. Furthermore, the transcriptional regulatory network showed that DMGs such as Aristaless-related homeobox (ARX), damage-specific DNA binding protein 2 (DDB2), and myelin basic protein (MBP) had higher node degrees. Our results showed that several methylated genes (ARX, DDB2, and MBP) may be involved in melanoma progression.
Genetic studies in yeast indicate that RNA transcripts facilitate homology-directed DNA repair in a manner that is dependent on RAD52. The molecular basis for so-called RNA-DNA repair, however, remains unknown. Using reconstitution assays, we demonstrate that RAD52 directly cooperates with RNA as a sequence-directed ribonucleoprotein complex to promote two related modes of RNA-DNA repair. In a RNA-bridging mechanism, RAD52 assembles recombinant RNA-DNA hybrids that coordinate synapsis and ligation of homologous DNA breaks. In an RNA-templated mechanism, RAD52-mediated RNA-DNA hybrids enable reverse transcription-dependent RNA-to-DNA sequence transfer at DNA breaks that licenses subsequent DNA recombination. Notably, we show that both mechanisms of RNA-DNA repair are promoted by transcription of a homologous DNA template in trans. In summary, these data elucidate how RNA transcripts cooperate with RAD52 to coordinate homology-directed DNA recombination and repair in the absence of a DNA donor, and demonstrate a direct role for transcription in RNA-DNA repair.
The error-free and efficient repair of DNA double-stranded breaks (DSBs) is extremely important for cell survival. RNA has been implicated in the resolution of DNA damage but the mechanism remains poorly understood. Here, we show that miRNA biogenesis enzymes, Drosha and Dicer, control the recruitment of repair factors from multiple pathways to sites of damage. Depletion of Drosha significantly reduces DNA repair by both homologous recombination (HR) and non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). Drosha is required within minutes of break induction, suggesting a central and early role for RNA processing in DNA repair. Sequencing of DNA:RNA hybrids reveals RNA invasion around DNA break sites in a Drosha-dependent manner. Removal of the RNA component of these structures results in impaired repair. These results show how RNA can be a direct and critical mediator of DNA damage repair in human cells.
Ataxia with oculomotor apraxia 2 (AOA-2) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS4) are neurological disorders caused by mutations in the gene encoding for senataxin (SETX), a putative RNA:DNA helicase involved in transcription and in the maintenance of genome integrity. Here, using ChIP followed by high throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq), we report that senataxin is recruited at DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) when they occur in transcriptionally active loci. Genome-wide mapping unveiled that RNA:DNA hybrids accumulate on DSB-flanking chromatin but display a narrow, DSB-induced, depletion near DNA ends coinciding with senataxin binding. Although neither required for resection nor for timely repair of DSBs, senataxin was found to promote Rad51 recruitment, to minimize illegitimate rejoining of distant DNA ends and to sustain cell viability following DSB production in active genes. Our data suggest that senataxin functions at DSBs in order to limit translocations and ensure cell viability, providing new insights on AOA2/ALS4 neuropathies.
Total RNA sequencing has been used to reveal poly(A) and non-poly(A) RNA expression, RNA processing and enhancer activity. To date, no method for full-length total RNA sequencing of single cells has been developed despite the potential of this technology for single-cell biology. Here we describe random displacement amplification sequencing (RamDA-seq), the first full-length total RNA-sequencing method for single cells. Compared with other methods, RamDA-seq shows high sensitivity to non-poly(A) RNA and near-complete full-length transcript coverage. Using RamDA-seq with differentiation time course samples of mouse embryonic stem cells, we reveal hundreds of dynamically regulated non-poly(A) transcripts, including histone transcripts and long noncoding RNA Neat1. Moreover, RamDA-seq profiles recursive splicing in >300-kb introns. RamDA-seq also detects enhancer RNAs and their cell type-specific activity in single cells. Taken together, we demonstrate that RamDA-seq could help investigate the dynamics of gene expression, RNA-processing events and transcriptional regulation in single cells.
Telomerase is a reverse transcriptase complex that ensures stable maintenance of linear eukaryotic chromosome ends by overcoming the end replication problem, posed by the inability of replicative DNA polymerases to fully replicate linear DNA. The catalytic subunit TERT must be assembled properly with its telomerase RNA for telomerase to function, and studies in Tetrahymena have established that p65, a La-related protein 7 (LARP7) family protein, utilizes its C-terminal xRRM domain to promote assembly of the telomerase ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex. However, LARP7-dependent telomerase complex assembly has been considered as unique to ciliates that utilize RNA polymerase III to transcribe telomerase RNA. Here we show evidence that fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe utilizes the p65-related protein Pof8 and its xRRM domain to promote assembly of RNA polymerase II-encoded telomerase RNA with TERT. Furthermore, we show that Pof8 contributes to repression of the transcription of noncoding RNAs at telomeres.
Deletions and chromosome re-arrangements are common features of cancer cells. We have established a new two-component system reporting on epigenetic silencing or deletion of an actively transcribed gene adjacent to a double-strand break (DSB). Unexpectedly, we find that a targeted DSB results in a minority (<10%) misrepair event of kilobase deletions encompassing the DSB site and transcribed gene. Deletions are reduced upon RNaseH1 over-expression and increased after knockdown of the DNA:RNA helicase Senataxin, implicating a role for DNA:RNA hybrids. We further demonstrate that the majority of these large deletions are dependent on the 3′ flap endonuclease XPF. DNA:RNA hybrids were detected by DNA:RNA immunoprecipitation in our system after DSB generation. These hybrids were reduced by RNaseH1 over-expression and increased by Senataxin knock-down, consistent with a role in deletions. Overall, these data are consistent with DNA:RNA hybrid generation at the site of a DSB, mis-processing of which results in genome instability in the form of large deletions.
Current approaches of single cell DNA-RNA integrated sequencing are difficult to call SNPs, because a large amount of DNA and RNA is lost during DNA-RNA separation. Here, we performed simultaneous single-cell exome and transcriptome sequencing on individual mouse oocytes. Using microinjection, we kept the nuclei intact to avoid DNA loss, while retaining the cytoplasm inside the cell membrane, to maximize the amount of DNA and RNA captured from the single cell. We then conducted exome-sequencing on the isolated nuclei and mRNA-sequencing on the enucleated cytoplasm. For single oocytes, exome-seq can cover up to 92% of exome region with an average sequencing depth of 10+, while mRNA-sequencing reveals more than 10,000 expressed genes in enucleated cytoplasm, with similar performance for intact oocytes. This approach provides unprecedented opportunities to study DNA-RNA regulation, such as RNA editing at single nucleotide level in oocytes. In future, this method can also be applied to other large cells, including neurons, large dendritic cells and large tumour cells for integrated exome and transcriptome sequencing.
Understanding the intricacies of telomerase regulation is crucial due to the potential health benefits of modifying its activity. Telomerase is composed of an RNA component and reverse transcriptase. However, additional factors required during biogenesis vary between species. Here we have identified fission yeast Lar7 as a member of the conserved LARP7 family, which includes the Tetrahymena telomerase-binding protein p65 and human LARP7. We show that Lar7 has conserved RNA-recognition motifs, which bind telomerase RNA to protect it from exosomal degradation. In addition, Lar7 is required to stabilise the association of telomerase RNA with the protective complex LSm2-8, and telomerase reverse transcriptase. Lar7 remains a component of the mature telomerase complex and is required for telomerase localisation to the telomere. Collectively, we demonstrate that Lar7 is a crucial player in fission yeast telomerase biogenesis, similarly to p65 in Tetrahymena, and highlight the LARP7 family as a conserved factor in telomere maintenance.
In M13mp2 lacZα forward mutation assays measuring intrinsic fidelity of DNA-dependent DNA synthesis, wild-type human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) RTs of group M/subtype B previously showed >10-fold higher error rates than murine leukaemia virus (MLV) and avian myeloblastosis virus (AMV) RTs. An adapted version of the assay was used to obtain error rates of RNA-dependent DNA synthesis for several RTs, including wild-type HIV-1BH10, HIV-1ESP49, AMV and MLV RTs, and the high-fidelity mutants of HIV-1ESP49 RT K65R and K65R/V75I. Our results showed that there were less than two-fold differences in fidelity between the studied RTs with error rates ranging within 2.5 × 10-5 and 3.5 × 10-5. These results were consistent with the existence of a transcriptional inaccuracy threshold, generated by the RNA polymerase while synthesizing the RNA template used in the assay. A modest but consistent reduction of the inaccuracy threshold was achieved by lowering the pH and Mg2+ concentration of the transcription reaction. Despite assay limitations, we conclude that HIV-1BH10 and HIV-1ESP49 RTs are less accurate when copying DNA templates than RNA templates. Analysis of the RNA-dependent mutational spectra revealed a higher tendency to introduce large deletions at the initiation of reverse transcription by all HIV-1 RTs except the double-mutant K65R/V75I.
Transcription in bacteria is controlled by multiple molecular mechanisms that precisely regulate gene expression. It has been recently shown that initial RNA synthesis by the bacterial RNA polymerase (RNAP) is interrupted by pauses; however, the pausing determinants and the relationship of pausing with productive and abortive RNA synthesis remain poorly understood. Using single-molecule FRET and biochemical analysis, here we show that the pause encountered by RNAP after the synthesis of a 6-nt RNA (ITC6) renders the promoter escape strongly dependent on the NTP concentration. Mechanistically, the paused ITC6 acts as a checkpoint that directs RNAP to one of three competing pathways: productive transcription, abortive RNA release, or a new unscrunching/scrunching pathway. The cyclic unscrunching/scrunching of the promoter generates a long-lived, RNA-bound paused state; the abortive RNA release and DNA unscrunching are thus not as tightly linked as previously thought. Finally, our new model couples the pausing with the abortive and productive outcomes of initial transcription.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) carry RNA, DNA, proteins, and lipids. Specifically, tumor-derived EVs have the potential to be utilized as disease-specific biomarkers. However, a lack of methods to isolate tumor-specific EVs has limited their use in clinical settings. Here we report a sensitive analytical microfluidic platform (EVHB-Chip) that enables tumor-specific EV-RNA isolation within 3 h. Using the EVHB-Chip, we achieve 94% tumor-EV specificity, a limit of detection of 100 EVs per μL, and a 10-fold increase in tumor RNA enrichment in comparison to other methods. Our approach allows for the subsequent release of captured tumor EVs, enabling downstream characterization and functional studies. Processing serum and plasma samples from glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) patients, we can detect the mutant EGFRvIII mRNA. Moreover, using next-generation RNA sequencing, we identify genes specific to GBM as well as transcripts that are hallmarks for the four genetic subtypes of the disease.
PARP1 regulates the repair of DNA single-strand breaks generated directly, or during base excision repair (BER). However, the role of PARP2 in these and other repair mechanisms is unknown. Here, we report a requirement for PARP2 in stabilising replication forks that encounter BER intermediates through Fbh1-dependent regulation of Rad51. Whereas PARP2 is dispensable for tolerance of cells to SSBs or homologous recombination dysfunction, it is redundant with PARP1 in BER. Therefore, combined disruption of PARP1 and PARP2 leads to defective BER, resulting in elevated levels of replication-Associated DNA damage owing to an inability to stabilise Rad51 at damaged replication forks and prevent uncontrolled DNA resection. Together, our results demonstrate how PARP1 and PARP2 regulate two independent, but intrinsically linked aspects of DNA base damage tolerance by promoting BER directly, and by stabilising replication forks that encounter BER intermediates.
BRCA1 is a tumor suppressor that regulates DNA repair by homologous recombination. Germline mutations in BRCA1 are associated with increased risk of breast and ovarian cancer and BRCA1 deficient tumors are exquisitely sensitive to poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors. Therefore, uncovering additional components of this DNA repair pathway is of extreme importance for further understanding cancer development and therapeutic vulnerabilities. Here, we identify EDC4, a known component of processing-bodies and regulator of mRNA decapping, as a member of the BRCA1-BRIP1-TOPBP1 complex. EDC4 plays a key role in homologous recombination by stimulating end resection at double-strand breaks. EDC4 deficiency leads to genome instability and hypersensitivity to DNA interstrand cross-linking drugs and PARP inhibitors. Lack-of-function mutations in EDC4 were detected in BRCA1/2-mutation-negative breast cancer cases, suggesting a role in breast cancer susceptibility. Collectively, this study recognizes EDC4 with a dual role in decapping and DNA repair whose inactivation phenocopies BRCA1 deficiency.
Ultraviolet (UV) light radiation induces the formation of bulky photoproducts in the DNA that globally affect transcription and splicing. However, the signaling pathways and mechanisms that link UV-light-induced DNA damage to changes in RNA metabolism remain poorly understood. Here we employ quantitative phosphoproteomics and protein kinase inhibition to provide a systems view on protein phosphorylation patterns induced by UV light and uncover the dependencies of phosphorylation events on the canonical DNA damage signaling by ATM/ATR and the p38 MAP kinase pathway. We identify RNA-binding proteins as primary substrates and 14-3-3 as direct readers of p38-MK2-dependent phosphorylation induced by UV light. Mechanistically, we show that MK2 phosphorylates the RNA-binding subunit of the NELF complex NELFE on Serine 115. NELFE phosphorylation promotes the recruitment of 14-3-3 and rapid dissociation of the NELF complex from chromatin, which is accompanied by RNA polymerase II elongation.
PCR inhibitors in clinical specimens negatively affect the sensitivity of diagnostic PCR and RT-PCR or may even cause false-negative results. To overcome PCR inhibition, increase the sensitivity of the assays and simplify the detection protocols, simple methods based on quantitative nested real-time PCR and RT-PCR were developed to detect exogenous DNA and RNA directly from large volumes of whole human blood (WHB). Thermus thermophilus (Tth) polymerase is resistant to several common PCR inhibitors and exhibits reverse transcriptase activity in the presence of manganese ions. In combination with optimized concentrations of magnesium ions and manganese ions, Tth polymerase enabled efficient detection of DNA and RNA from large volumes of WHB treated with various anticoagulants. The applicability of these methods was further demonstrated by examining WHB specimens collected from different healthy individuals and those stored under a variety of conditions. The detection limit of these methods was determined by detecting exogenous DNA, RNA, and bacteria spiked in WHB. To the best of our knowledge, direct RNA detection from large volumes of WHB has not been reported. The results of the developed methods can be obtained within 4 hours, making them possible for rapid and accurate detection of disease-causing agents from WHB.
Modern genetic tools allow the dissection and emulation of fundamental mechanisms shaping morphogenesis in multicellular organisms. Several synthetic genetic circuits for control of multicellular patterning have been reported to date. However, hierarchical induction of gene expression domains has received little attention from synthetic biologists, despite its importance in biological self-organization. Here we report a synthetic genetic system implementing population-based AND-logic for programmed autonomous induction of bacterial gene expression domains. We develop a ratiometric assay for bacteriophage T7 RNA polymerase activity and use it to systematically characterize different intact and split enzyme variants. We then utilize the best-performing variant to build a three-color patterning system responsive to two different homoserine lactones. We validate the AND gate-like behavior of this system both in cell suspension and in surface culture. Finally, we use the synthetic circuit in a membrane-based spatial assay to demonstrate programmed hierarchical patterning of gene expression across bacterial populations.
Heteroduplex oligonucleotides (HDOs), composed of a DNA/LNA gapmer and its complementary RNA, are a novel, promising candidates for antisense drugs. We previously reported oligodiaminogalactoses (ODAGals), designed to bind to A-type nucleic acid duplexes such as DNA/RNA and RNA/RNA duplexes. In this paper, we report oligodiguanidinogalactoses (ODGGals) as novel A-type duplex binding molecules. We aimed to study in detail applicability of ODAGals and ODGGals for additives to HDOs as an antisense drug. The effect of ODAGal4 (ODAGal 4mer) and ODGGal3 (ODGGal 3mer) on an HDO were evaluated by UV melting analyses, RNA degradation study by ribonuclease A (RNase A), and ribonuclease H (RNase H). Cleavage of a 13mer HDO by RNase A, which is considered to be the main cause of RNA degradation in serum, was effectively inhibited by the addition of only one equivalent of ODAGal4 and ODGGal3. In contrast, RNase H activity, which involves the cleavage of target RNAs by an antisense mechanism, was only slightly affected by the presence of the cationic oligosaccharides. These results suggest that ODAGal4 and ODGGal3 are useful because they could both stabilize the HDO and maintain RNase H activity of the gapmer.
In the original version of this Article, the affiliation details for Antoine Aze, Michalis Fragkos, Stéphane Bocquet, Julien Cau and Marcel Méchali incorrectly omitted 'CNRS and the University of Montpellier'. This has now been corrected in both the PDF and HTML versions of the Article.
Rpb9 is a non-essential subunit of RNA polymerase II that is involved in DNA transcription and repair. In budding yeast, deletion of RPB9 causes several phenotypes such as slow growth and temperature sensitivity. We found that simultaneous mutation of multiple N-terminal lysines within histone H3 was lethal in rpb9Δ cells. Our results indicate that hypoacetylation of H3 leads to inefficient repair of DNA double-strand breaks, while activation of the DNA damage checkpoint regulators γH2A and Rad53 is suppressed in Rpb9-deficient cells. Combination of H3 hypoacetylation with the loss of Rpb9 leads to genomic instability, aberrant segregation of chromosomes in mitosis, and eventually to cell death. These results indicate that H3 acetylation becomes essential for efficient DNA repair and cell survival if a DNA damage checkpoint is defective.
Parallel single-cell sequencing protocols represent powerful methods for investigating regulatory relationships, including epigenome-transcriptome interactions. Here, we report a single-cell method for parallel chromatin accessibility, DNA methylation and transcriptome profiling. scNMT-seq (single-cell nucleosome, methylation and transcription sequencing) uses a GpC methyltransferase to label open chromatin followed by bisulfite and RNA sequencing. We validate scNMT-seq by applying it to differentiating mouse embryonic stem cells, finding links between all three molecular layers and revealing dynamic coupling between epigenomic layers during differentiation.
Off-target DNA cleavage is a paramount concern when applying CRISPR-Cas9 gene-editing technology to functional genetics and human therapeutic applications. Here, we show that incorporation of next-generation bridged nucleic acids (2′,4′-BNANC[N-Me]) as well as locked nucleic acids (LNA) at specific locations in CRISPR-RNAs (crRNAs) broadly reduces off-target DNA cleavage by Cas9 in vitro and in cells by several orders of magnitude. Using single-molecule FRET experiments we show that BNANC incorporation slows Cas9 kinetics and improves specificity by inducing a highly dynamic crRNA-DNA duplex for off-target sequences, which shortens dwell time in the cleavage-competent, "zipped" conformation. In addition to describing a robust technique for improving the precision of CRISPR/Cas9-based gene editing, this study illuminates an application of synthetic nucleic acids.
Little is known about how RNA binding proteins cooperate to control splicing, and how stress pathways reconfigure these assemblies to alter splice site selection. We have shown previously that SRSF10 plays an important role in the Bcl-x splicing response to DNA damage elicited by oxaliplatin in 293 cells. Here, RNA affinity assays using a portion of the Bcl-x transcript required for this response led to the recovery of the SRSF10-interacting protein 14-3-3ϵ and the Sam68-interacting protein hnRNP A1. Although SRSF10, 14-3-3ϵ, hnRNP A1/A2 and Sam68 do not make major contributions to the regulation of Bcl-x splicing under normal growth conditions, upon DNA damage they become important to activate the 5′ splice site of pro-apoptotic Bcl-xS. Our results indicate that DNA damage reconfigures the binding and activity of several regulatory RNA binding proteins on the Bcl-x pre-mRNA. Moreover, SRSF10, hnRNP A1/A2 and Sam68 collaborate to drive the DNA damage-induced splicing response of several transcripts that produce components implicated in apoptosis, cell-cycle control and DNA repair. Our study reveals how the circuitry of splicing factors is rewired to produce partnerships that coordinate alternative splicing across processes crucial for cell fate.
Here we report the discovery of two Tupanvirus strains, the longest tailed Mimiviridae members isolated in amoebae. Their genomes are 1.44-1.51 Mb linear double-strand DNA coding for 1276-1425 predicted proteins. Tupanviruses share the same ancestors with mimivirus lineages and these giant viruses present the largest translational apparatus within the known virosphere, with up to 70 tRNA, 20 aaRS, 11 factors for all translation steps, and factors related to tRNA/mRNA maturation and ribosome protein modification. Moreover, two sequences with significant similarity to intronic regions of 18 S rRNA genes are encoded by the tupanviruses and highly expressed. In this translation-associated gene set, only the ribosome is lacking. At high multiplicity of infections, tupanvirus is also cytotoxic and causes a severe shutdown of ribosomal RNA and a progressive degradation of the nucleus in host and non-host cells. The analysis of tupanviruses constitutes a new step toward understanding the evolution of giant viruses.
Nucleophosmin (NPM1) is a multifunctional phosphoprotein which plays important roles in diverse biological processes. NPM1 can form homo-or hetero-oligomers through its N-Terminal region, and bind DNA and RNA through its C-Terminal region. However, the monomer-oligomer distribution of NPM1, and the extent of NPM1 binding and unbinding to RNA in living cells, are not fully understood. In this work, we analysed molecular complexes of NPM1 using size exclusion chromatography. We found that a substantial fraction of NPM1 behaves as an oligomer in HeLa cells. Furthermore, we identified three distinct oligomeric states of NPM1 using molecular characterization techniques such as subcellular localization and RNA binding. Finally, we found that heterozygous expression of a leukemia-Associated NPM1 mutant significantly decreases the RNA binding level. Our data demonstrate that size exclusion chromatography provides a powerful tool for analysing NPM1 oligomers.
This study is the first to report the successful development of a method to extract opium poppy (Papaver somniferum L.) DNA from heroin samples. Determining of the source of an unknown heroin sample (forensic geosourcing) is vital to informing domestic and foreign policy related to counter-narcoterrorism. Current profiling methods focus on identifying process-related chemical impurities found in heroin samples. Changes to the geographically distinct processing methods may lead to difficulties in classifying and attributing heroin samples to a region/country. This study focuses on methods to optimize the DNA extraction and amplification of samples with low levels of degraded DNA and inhibiting compounds such as heroin. We compared modified commercial-off-The-shelf extraction methods such as the Qiagen Plant, Stool and the Promega Maxwell-16 RNA-LEV tissue kits for the ability to extract opium poppy DNA from latex, raw and cooked opium, white and brown powder heroin and black tar heroin. Opium poppy DNA was successfully detected in all poppy-derived samples, including heroin. The modified Qiagen stool method with post-extraction purification and a two-stage, dual DNA polymerase amplification procedure resulted in the highest DNA yield and minimized inhibition. This paper describes the initial phase in establishing a DNA-based signature method to characterize heroin.
GFI1 is a transcriptional regulator expressed in lymphoid cells, and an "oncorequisite" factor required for development and maintenance of T-lymphoid leukemia. GFI1 deletion causes hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation, for which the molecular mechanism remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that GFI1 is required in T cells for the regulation of key DNA damage signaling and repair proteins. Specifically, GFI1 interacts with the arginine methyltransferase PRMT1 and its substrates MRE11 and 53BP1. We demonstrate that GFI1 enables PRMT1 to bind and methylate MRE11 and 53BP1, which is necessary for their function in the DNA damage response. Thus, our results provide evidence that GFI1 can adopt non-transcriptional roles, mediating the post-translational modification of proteins involved in DNA repair. These findings have direct implications for treatment responses in tumors overexpressing GFI1 and suggest that GFI1's activity may be a therapeutic target in these malignancies.
Despite extensive research, the sequence features affecting microRNA-mediated regulation are not well understood, limiting our ability to predict gene expression levels in both native and synthetic sequences. Here we employed a massively parallel reporter assay to investigate the effect of over 14,000 rationally designed 3′ UTR sequences on reporter construct repression. We found that multiple factors, including microRNA identity, hybridization energy, target accessibility, and target multiplicity, can be manipulated to achieve a predictable, up to 57-fold, change in protein repression. Moreover, we predict protein repression and RNA levels with high accuracy (R = 0.84 and R = 0.80, respectively) using only 3′ UTR sequence, as well as the effect of mutation in native 3′ UTRs on protein repression (R = 0.63). Taken together, our results elucidate the effect of different sequence features on miRNA-mediated regulation and demonstrate the predictability of their effect on gene expression with applications in regulatory genomics and synthetic biology.
The shortage of molecular information for taxol-producing fungi has greatly impeded the understanding of fungal taxol biosynthesis mechanism. In this study, the transcriptome of one taxol-producing endophytic fungus Cladosporium cladosporioides MD2 was sequenced for the first time. About 1.77 Gbp clean reads were generated and further assembled into 16,603 unigenes with an average length of 1110 bp. All of the unigenes were annotated against seven public databases to present the transcriptome characteristics of C. cladosporioides MD2. A total of 12,479 unigenes could be annotated with at least one database, and 1593 unigenes could be annotated in all queried databases. In total, 8425 and 3350 unigenes were categorized into 57 GO functional groups and 262 KEGG pathways, respectively, exhibiting the dominant GO terms and metabolic pathways in the C. cladosporioides MD2 transcriptome. One potential and partial taxol biosynthetic pathway was speculated including 9 unigenes related to terpenoid backbone biosynthesis and 40 unigenes involved in the biosynthetic steps from geranylgeranyl diphosphate to 10-deacetylbaccatin III. These results provided valuable information for the molecular mechanism research of taxol biosynthesis in C. cladosporioides MD2.
Innate immune system is armed by several lines of pattern recognition receptors to sense various viral infection and to initiate antiviral immune response. This process is under a tight control and the negative feedback induced by infection and/or inflammation is critical to maintain immune homoeostasis and to prevent autoimmune disorders, however, the molecular mechanism is not fully understood. Here we report TRIM29, a ubiquitin E3 ligase, functions as an inducible negative regulator of innate immune response triggered by DNA virus and cytosolic DNA. DNA virus and cytosolic DNA stimulation induce TRIM29 expression robustly in macrophages and dendritic cells, although the basal level of TRIM29 is undetectable in those cells. TRIM29 deficiency elevates IFN-I and proinflammatory cytokine production upon viral DNA and cytosolic dsDNA stimulation. Consistently, in vivo experiments show that TRIM29-deficient mice are more resistant to HSV-1 infection than WT controls, indicated by better survival rate and reduced viral load in organs. Mechanism studies suggest that STING-TBK1-IRF3 signaling pathway in TRIM29 KO cells is significantly enhanced and the degradation of STING is impaired. Furthermore, we identify that TRIM29 targets STING for K48 ubiquitination and degradation. This study reveals TRIM29 as a crucial negative regulator in immune response to DNA virus and cytosolic DNA, preventing potential damage caused by overcommitted immune responses.
In a previous study the small molecule SJP-L-5 that inhibits HIV replication, has been shown to block uncoating of the viral capsid. Continued study showed that SJP-L-5 might hinder HIV capsid uncoating by blocking the completion of reverse transcription. However, to date, the mechanism has not been fully elucidated. Here, the effects of SJP-L-5 for reverse transcription were explored via quantitative PCR, DIG-labelled ELISA, fluorescent resonance energy transfer, and Southern blot assays. We also analyzed the resistance profile of this compound against reverse transcriptase. Our results show that SJP-L-5 preferentially inhibits PPT primed plus-strand DNA synthesis (EC = 13.4 ± 3.0 μM) over RNA primed minus-strand DNA synthesis (EC > 3,646 μM), resulting in formation of five segmented plus-strand DNA and loss of HIV DNA flap, suggesting failure of both nuclear import and integration. Moreover, resistance study evidenced that SJP-L-5 requires the amino acid residues Val108 and Tyr181 to exert an inhibitory effect. These results indicate SJP-L-5 as a new non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor that inhibits HIV-1 polypurine tract primed plus-strand DNA synthesis, initiating HIV-1 down-stream plus-strand DNA synthesis at multiple sites under drug pressure.
Up-Frameshift Suppressor 1 Homolog (UPF1) is a key factor for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), a cellular process that can actively degrade mRNAs. Here, we study NMD inhibition during infection by human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-1) and characterise the influence of the retroviral Tax factor on UPF1 activity. Tax interacts with the central helicase core domain of UPF1 and might plug the RNA channel of UPF1, reducing its affinity for nucleic acids. Furthermore, using a single-molecule approach, we show that the sequential interaction of Tax with a RNA-bound UPF1 freezes UPF1: this latter is less sensitive to the presence of ATP and shows translocation defects, highlighting the importance of this feature for NMD. These mechanistic insights reveal how HTLV-1 hijacks the central component of NMD to ensure expression of its own genome.
Exosomes are microvesicles known to carry biologically active molecules, including RNA, DNA and proteins. Viral infections can induce profound changes in exosome composition, and exosomes have been implicated in viral transmission and pathogenesis. No information is current available regarding exosome composition and function during infection with Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV), the most important cause of lower respiratory tract infections in children. In this study, we characterized exosomes released from RSV-infected lung carcinoma-derived A549 cells. RNA deep sequencing revealed that RSV exosomes contain a diverse range of RNA species like messenger and ribosomal RNA fragments, as well as small noncoding RNAs, in a proportion different from exosomes isolated from mock-infected cells. We observed that both RNA and protein signatures of RSV were present in exosomes, however, they were not able to establish productive infection in uninfected cells. Exosomes isolated from RSV-infected cells were able to activate innate immune response by inducing cytokine and chemokine release from human monocytes and airway epithelial cells. These data suggest that exosomes may play an important role in pathogenesis or protection against disease, therefore understating their role in RSV infection may open new avenues for target identification and development of novel therapeutics.
The length of a telomere is regulated via elongation and shortening processes. Telomeric DNA and telomeric repeat-containing RNA (TERRA), which both contain G-rich repeated sequences, form G-quadruplex structures. Previously, translocated in liposarcoma (TLS) protein, also known as fused in sarcoma (FUS) protein, was found to form a ternary complex with the G-quadruplex structures of telomeric DNA and TERRA. We then showed that the third RGG motif of TLS, the RGG3 domain, is responsible for the complex formation. However, the structural basis for their binding remains obscure. Here, NMR-based binding assaying revealed the interactions in the binary and ternary complexes of RGG3 with telomeric DNA or/and TERRA. In the ternary complex, tyrosine bound exclusively to TERRA, while phenylalanine bound exclusively to telomeric DNA. Thus, tyrosine and phenylalanine each play a central role in the recognition of TERRA and telomeric DNA, respectively. Surprisingly in the binary complexes, RGG3 used both tyrosine and phenylalanine residues to bind to either TERRA or telomeric DNA. We propose that the plastic roles of tyrosine and phenylalanine are important for RGG3 to efficiently form the ternary complex, and thereby regulate the telomere shortening.
Despite a considerable focus on the adverse effects of silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) in recent years, studies on the potential long-term effects of AgNPs are scarce. The aim of this study was to explore the effects of AgNPs following repeated low-dose, long-term exposure of human bronchial epithelial cells. To this end, the human BEAS-2B cell line was exposed to 1 μg/mL AgNPs (10 nm) for 6 weeks followed by RNA-sequencing (RNA-Seq) as well as genome-wide DNA methylation analysis. The transcriptomics analysis showed that a substantial number of genes (1717) were differentially expressed following AgNP exposure whereas only marginal effects on DNA methylation were observed. Downstream analysis of the transcriptomics data identified several affected pathways including the 'fibrosis' and 'epithelial-mesenchymal transition' (EMT) pathway. Subsequently, functional validation studies were performed using AgNPs of two different sizes (10 nm and 75 nm). Both NPs increased collagen deposition, indicative of fibrosis, and induced EMT, as evidenced by an increased invasion index, anchorage independent cell growth, as well as cadherin switching. In conclusion, using a combination of RNA-Seq and functional assays, our study revealed that repeated low-dose, long-term exposure of human BEAS-2B cells to AgNPs is pro-fibrotic, induces EMT and cell transformation.
Duplexed aptamers (DAs) are ligand-responsive constructs engineered by hybridizing an aptamer with an aptamer-complementary element (ACE, e.g., a DNA oligonucleotide). Although DAs are commonly deployed, the binding dynamics of ternary ACE-aptamer-ligand systems remain underexplored, having been conventionally described by a conformational selection framework. Here we introduce aptamer-complementary element scanning (ACE-Scan) as a method to generate comprehensive hybridization, spontaneous off-rate, and induced fit ligand-binding landscapes for entire DA families. ACE-Scan reveals induced fit in DAs engineered from small molecule- and protein-binding DNA and RNA aptamers, as well as DAs engineered from the natural add riboswitch aptamer. To validate ACE-Scan, we engineer solution-phase ATP-specific DAs from 5 ACEs with varying spontaneous and induced fit off-rates, generating aptasensors with 8-fold differences in dynamic range consistent with ACE-Scan. This work demonstrates that ACE-Scan can readily map induced fit in DAs, empowering aptamers in biosensing, synthetic biology, and DNA nanomachines.
Majority of disease-modifying therapeutic targets are restricted to the intracellular space and are therefore not druggable using existing biologic modalities. The ability to efficiently deliver macromolecules inside target cells or tissues would greatly expand the current landscape of therapeutic targets for future generations of biologic drugs, but remains challenging. Here we report the use of extracellular vesicles, known as arrestin domain containing protein 1 [ARRDC1]-mediated microvesicles (ARMMs), for packaging and intracellular delivery of a myriad of macromolecules, including the tumor suppressor p53 protein, RNAs, and the genome-editing CRISPR-Cas9/guide RNA complex. We demonstrate selective recruitment of these macromolecules into ARMMs. When delivered intracellularly via ARMMs, these macromolecules are biologically active in recipient cells. P53 delivered via ARMMs induces DNA damage-dependent apoptosis in multiple tissues in mice. Together, our results provide proof-of-principle demonstration that ARMMs represent a highly versatile platform for packaging and intracellular delivery of therapeutic macromolecules.
Familial dysautonomia (FD) results from mutation in IKBKAP/ELP1, a gene encoding the scaffolding protein for the Elongator complex. This highly conserved complex is required for the translation of codon-biased genes in lower organisms. Here we investigate whether Elongator serves a similar function in mammalian peripheral neurons, the population devastated in FD. Using codon-biased eGFP sensors, and multiplexing of codon usage with transcriptome and proteome analyses of over 6,000 genes, we identify two categories of genes, as well as specific gene identities that depend on Elongator for normal expression. Moreover, we show that multiple genes in the DNA damage repair pathway are codon-biased, and that with Elongator loss, their misregulation is correlated with elevated levels of DNA damage. These findings link Elongator's function in the translation of codon-biased genes with both the developmental and neurodegenerative phenotypes of FD, and also clarify the increased risk of cancer associated with the disease.
Despite possessing limited protein-coding potential, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been implicated in a myriad of pathologic conditions. Most well documented in cancer, one prominent intergenic lncRNA known as MALAT1 is notorious for its role in impacting epigenetic mechanisms. In this study, we established a novel epigenetic paradigm for MALAT in diabetic retinopathy (DR) by employing siRNA-mediated MALAT1 knockdown in human retinal endothelial cells (HRECs), a Malat1 knockout animal model, vitreous humor from diabetic patients, pharmacological inhibitors for histone and DNA methylation, RNA immunoprecipitation, western blotting, and a unique DNA methylation array to determine glucose-related alterations in MALAT1. Our findings indicated that MALAT1 is capable of impacting the expressions of inflammatory transcripts through its association with components of the PRC2 complex in diabetes. Furthermore, the vitreous humors from diabetic patients revealed increased expressions of MALAT1, TNF-α, and IL-6. Intriguingly, our DNA methylation array demonstrated that transient high glucose exposure in HRECs does not contribute to significant methylation alterations at CpG sites across the MALAT1 gene. However, global inhibition of DNA methyltransferases induced significant increases in MALAT1 and associated inflammatory transcripts in HRECs. Our findings collectively demonstrate the importance of MALAT1 in inflammation and epigenetic regulation in DR.
Inherited genetic variation affects local gene expression and DNA methylation in humans. Most expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTLs) occur at the same genomic location as a methylation QTL (cis-meQTL), suggesting a common causal variant and shared mechanism. Using DNA and RNA from peripheral blood of Bangladeshi individuals, here we use co-localization methods to identify eQTL-meQTL pairs likely to share a causal variant. We use partial correlation and mediation analyses to identify >400 of these pairs showing evidence of a causal relationship between expression and methylation (i.e., shared mechanism) with many additional pairs we are underpowered to detect. These co-localized pairs are enriched for SNPs showing opposite associations with expression and methylation, although many SNPs affect multiple CpGs in opposite directions. This work demonstrates the pervasiveness of co-regulated expression and methylation in the human genome. Applying this approach to other types of molecular QTLs can enhance our understanding of regulatory mechanisms.
Issatchenkia orientalis, a non-Saccharomyces yeast that can resist a wide variety of environmental stresses, has potential use in winemaking and bioethanol production. Little is known about gene expression or the physiology of I. orientalis under ethanol stress. In this study, high-throughput RNA sequencing was used to investigate the transcriptome profile of I. orientalis in response to ethanol. 502 gene transcripts were differentially expressed, of which 451 were more abundant, and 51 less abundant, in cells subjected to 4 h of ethanol stress (10% v/v). Annotation and statistical analyses suggest that multiple genes involved in ergosterol biosynthesis, trehalose metabolism, and stress response are differentially expressed under these conditions. The up-regulation of molecular chaperones HSP90 and HSP70, and also genes associated with the ubiquitin–proteasome proteolytic pathway suggests that ethanol stress may cause aggregation of misfolded proteins. Finally, ethanol stress in I. orientalis appears to have a nitrogen starvation effect, and many genes involved in nutrient uptake were up-regulated.
Hexanucleotide repeat expansion in C9ORF72 is the most frequent cause of both amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Here we demonstrate that the repeat-associated non-AUG (RAN) translation of (GGGGCC) n -containing RNAs into poly-dipeptides can initiate in vivo without a 5′-cap. The primary RNA substrate for RAN translation of C9ORF72 sense repeats is shown to be the spliced first intron, following its excision from the initial pre-mRNA and transport to the cytoplasm. Cap-independent RAN translation is shown to be upregulated by various stress stimuli through phosphorylation of the α subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor-2 (eIF2α), the core event of an integrated stress response (ISR). Compounds inhibiting phospho-eIF2α-signaling pathways are shown to suppress RAN translation. Since the poly-dipeptides can themselves induce stress, these findings support a feedforward loop with initial repeat-mediated toxicity enhancing RAN translation and subsequent production of additional poly-dipeptides through ISR, thereby promoting progressive disease.
The sexually-transmitted parasite Trichomonas vaginalis infects ∼1/4 billion people worldwide. Despite its prevalence and myriad adverse outcomes of infection, the mechanisms underlying T. vaginalis pathogenesis are poorly understood. Genetic manipulation of this single-celled eukaryote has been hindered by challenges presented by its complex, repetitive genome and inefficient methods for introducing DNA (i.e. transfection) into the parasite. Here, we have developed methods to increase transfection efficiency using nucleofection, with the goal of efficiently introducing multiple DNA elements into a single T. vaginalis cell. We then created DNA constructs required to express several components essential to drive CRISPR/Cas9-mediated DNA modification: guide RNA (gRNA), the Cas9 endonuclease, short oligonucleotides and large, linearized DNA templates. Using these technical advances, we have established CRISPR/Cas9-mediated repair of mutations in genes contained on circular DNA plasmids harbored by the parasite. We also engineered CRISPR/Cas9 directed homologous recombination to delete (i.e. knock out) two non-essential genes within the T. vaginalis genome. This first report of the use of the CRISPR/Cas9 system in T. vaginalis greatly expands the ability to manipulate the genome of this pathogen and sets the stage for testing of the role of specific genes in many biological processes.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the most frequent motor neuron disease. Cytoplasmic fused in sarcoma (FUS) aggregates are pathological hallmarks of FUS-ALS. Proper shuttling between the nucleus and cytoplasm is essential for physiological cell function. However, the initial event in the pathophysiology of FUS-ALS remains enigmatic. Using human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSCs)-derived motor neurons (MNs), we show that impairment of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)-dependent DNA damage response (DDR) signaling due to mutations in the FUS nuclear localization sequence (NLS) induces additional cytoplasmic FUS mislocalization which in turn results in neurodegeneration and FUS aggregate formation. Our work suggests that a key pathophysiologic event in ALS is upstream of aggregate formation. Targeting DDR signaling could lead to novel therapeutic routes for ameliorating ALS.
Transcription-blocking DNA lesions are removed by transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair (TC-NER) to preserve cell viability. TC-NER is triggered by the stalling of RNA polymerase II at DNA lesions, leading to the recruitment of TC-NER-specific factors such as the CSA-DDB1-CUL4A-RBX1 cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase complex (CRLCSA). Despite its vital role in TC-NER, little is known about the regulation of the CRLCSA complex during TC-NER. Using conventional and cross-linking immunoprecipitations coupled to mass spectrometry, we uncover a stable interaction between CSA and the TRiC chaperonin. TRiC's binding to CSA ensures its stability and DDB1-dependent assembly into the CRLCSA complex. Consequently, loss of TRiC leads to mislocalization and depletion of CSA, as well as impaired transcription recovery following UV damage, suggesting defects in TC-NER. Furthermore, Cockayne syndrome (CS)-causing mutations in CSA lead to increased TRiC binding and a failure to compose the CRLCSA complex. Thus, we uncover CSA as a TRiC substrate and reveal that TRiC regulates CSA-dependent TC-NER and the development of CS.
During transcription elongation, bacterial RNA polymerase (RNAP) can pause, backtrack or stall when transcribing template DNA. Stalled transcription elongation complexes at sites of bulky lesions can be rescued by the transcription terminator Mfd. The molecular mechanisms of Mfd recruitment to transcription complexes in vivo remain to be elucidated, however. Using single-molecule live-cell imaging, we show that Mfd associates with elongation transcription complexes even in the absence of exogenous genotoxic stresses. This interaction requires an intact RNA polymerase-interacting domain of Mfd. In the presence of drugs that stall RNAP, we find that Mfd associates pervasively with RNAP. The residence time of Mfd foci reduces from 30 to 18 s in the presence of endogenous UvrA, suggesting that UvrA promotes the resolution of Mfd-RNAP complexes on DNA. Our results reveal that RNAP is frequently rescued by Mfd during normal growth and highlight a ubiquitous house-keeping role for Mfd in regulating transcription elongation.
APOBEC3 family members are cytidine deaminases with roles in intrinsic responses to infection by retroviruses and retrotransposons, and in the control of other DNA viruses, such as herpesviruses, parvoviruses and hepatitis B virus. Although effects of APOBEC3 members on viral DNA have been demonstrated, it is not known whether they edit RNA genomes through cytidine deamination. Here, we investigated APOBEC3-mediated restriction of Coronaviridae. In experiments in vitro, three human APOBEC3 proteins (A3C, A3F and A3H) inhibited HCoV-NL63 infection and limited production of progeny virus, but did not cause hypermutation of the coronaviral genome. APOBEC3-mediated restriction was partially dependent on enzyme activity, and was reduced by the use of enzymatically inactive APOBEC3. Moreover, APOBEC3 proteins bound to the coronaviral nucleoprotein, and this interaction also affected viral replication. Although the precise molecular mechanism of deaminase-dependent inhibition of coronavirus replication remains elusive, our results further our understanding of APOBEC-mediated restriction of RNA virus infections.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a highly prevalent neurodevelopmental disorder, and the exact causal mechanism is unknown. Dysregulated allele-specific expression (ASE) has been identified in persons with ASD; however, a comprehensive analysis of ASE has not been conducted in a family quartet with ASD. To fill this gap, we analyzed ASE using genomic DNA from parent and offspring and RNA from offspring's postmortem prefrontal cortex (PFC); one of the two offspring had been diagnosed with ASD. DNA- and RNA-sequencing revealed distinct ASE patterns from the PFC of both offspring. However, only the PFC of the offspring with ASD exhibited a mono-to-biallelic switch for LRP2BP and ZNF407. We also identified a novel site of RNA-editing in KMT2C in addition to new monoallelically-expressed genes and miRNAs. Our results demonstrate the prevalence of ASE in human PFC and ASE abnormalities in the PFC of a person with ASD. Taken together, these findings may provide mechanistic insights into the pathogenesis of ASD.
TERRAs are long non-coding RNAs generated from the telomeres. Lack of TERRA knockout models has hampered understanding TERRAs' functions. We recently identified chromosome 20q as one of the main origins of human TERRAs, allowing us to generate the first 20q-TERRA knockout models and to demonstrate that TERRAs are essential for telomere length maintenance and protection. Here, we use ALT 20q-TERRA knockout cells to address a direct role of TERRAs in telomeric heterochromatin formation. We find that 20q-TERRAs are essential for the establishment of H3K9me3, H4K20me3, and H3K27me3 heterochromatin marks at telomeres. At the mechanistic level, we find that TERRAs bind to PRC2, responsible for catalyzing H3K27 tri-methylation, and that its localization to telomeres is TERRA-dependent. We further demonstrate that PRC2-dependent H3K27me3 at telomeres is required for the establishment of H3K9me3, H4K20me3, and HP1 binding at telomeres. Together, these findings demonstrate an important role for TERRAs in telomeric heterochromatin assembly.
Plants are exposed to numerous DNA-damaging stresses including the exposure to ultraviolet (UV) component of solar radiation. They employ nucleotide excision repair to remove DNA-bulky adducts and to help eliminate UV-induced DNA lesions, so as to maintain their genome integrity and their fitness. Here, we generated genome-wide single-nucleotide resolution excision repair maps of UV-induced DNA damage in Arabidopsis at different circadian time points. Our data show that the repair of UV lesions for a large fraction of the genome is controlled by the joint actions of the circadian clock and transcription by RNA polymerase II. Our findings reveal very strong repair preference for the transcribed strands of active genes in Arabidopsis, and 10-30% of the transcription-coupled repair is circadian time-dependent. This dynamic range in nucleotide excision repair levels throughout the day enables Arabidopsis to cope with the bulky DNA lesion-inducing environmental factors including UV.
T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL) is a rare and poor-prognostic mature T-cell malignancy. Here we integrated large-scale profiling data of alterations in gene expression, allelic copy number (CN), and nucleotide sequences in 111 well-characterized patients. Besides prominent signatures of T-cell activation and prevalent clonal variants, we also identify novel hot-spots for CN variability, fusion molecules, alternative transcripts, and progression-associated dynamics. The overall lesional spectrum of T-PLL is mainly annotated to axes of DNA damage responses, T-cell receptor/cytokine signaling, and histone modulation. We formulate a multi-dimensional model of T-PLL pathogenesis centered around a unique combination of TCL1 overexpression with damaging ATM aberrations as initiating core lesions. The effects imposed by TCL1 cooperate with compromised ATM toward a leukemogenic phenotype of impaired DNA damage processing. Dysfunctional ATM appears inefficient in alleviating elevated redox burdens and telomere attrition and in evoking a p53-dependent apoptotic response to genotoxic insults. As non-genotoxic strategies, synergistic combinations of p53 reactivators and deacetylase inhibitors reinstate such cell death execution.
The general transcription factor IID (TFIID) is the first component of the preinitiation complex (PIC) to bind the core promoter of RNA polymerase II transcribed genes. Despite its critical role in protein-encoded gene expression, how TFIID engages promoter DNA remains elusive. We have previously revealed a winged-helix DNA-binding domain in the N-terminal region of the largest TFIID subunit, TAF1. Here, we report the identification of a second DNA-binding module in the C-terminal half of human TAF1, which is encoded by a previously uncharacterized conserved zinc knuckle domain. We show that the TAF1 zinc knuckle AIDS in the recruit of TFIID to endogenous promoters vital for cellular proliferation. Mutation of the TAF1 zinc knuckle with defects in DNA binding compromises promoter occupancy of TFIID, which leads to a decrease in transcription and cell viability. Together, our studies provide a foundation to understand how TAF1 plays a central role in TFIID promoter binding and regulation of transcription initiation.
Microbial diversity in lava tubes from Canary Islands (Spain) has never been explored thus far offering a unique opportunity to study subsurface microbiology. Abundant yellow coloured mats developing on coralloid speleothems in a lava tube from La Palma Islands were studied by next-generation sequencing and DNA/RNA clone library analyses for investigating both total and metabolically active bacteria. In addition, morphological and mineralogical characterization was performed by field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM), micro-computed tomography, X-ray diffraction and infrared spectroscopy to contextualize sequence data. This approach showed that the coralloid speleothems consist of banded siliceous stalactites composed of opal-A and hydrated halloysite. Analytical pyrolysis was also conducted to infer the possible origin of cave wall pigmentation, revealing that lignin degradation compounds can contribute to speleothem colour. Our RNA-based study showed for the first time that members of the phylum Actinobacteria, with 55% of the clones belonging to Euzebyales order, were metabolically active components of yellow mats. In contrast, the DNA clone library revealed that around 45% of clones were affiliated to Proteobacteria. Composition of microbial phyla obtained by NGS reinforced the DNA clone library data at the phylum level, in which Proteobacteria was the most abundant phylum followed by Actinobacteria.
The identification of genes and regulatory elements underlying the associations discovered by GWAS is essential to understanding the aetiology of complex traits (including diseases). Here, we demonstrate an analytical paradigm of prioritizing genes and regulatory elements at GWAS loci for follow-up functional studies. We perform an integrative analysis that uses summary-level SNP data from multi-omics studies to detect DNA methylation (DNAm) sites associated with gene expression and phenotype through shared genetic effects (i.e., pleiotropy). We identify pleiotropic associations between 7858 DNAm sites and 2733 genes. These DNAm sites are enriched in enhancers and promoters, and >40% of them are mapped to distal genes. Further pleiotropic association analyses, which link both the methylome and transcriptome to 12 complex traits, identify 149 DNAm sites and 66 genes, indicating a plausible mechanism whereby the effect of a genetic variant on phenotype is mediated by genetic regulation of transcription through DNAm.
Most studies of bacterial motility have examined small-scale (micrometer-centimeter) cell dispersal in monocultures. However, bacteria live in multispecies communities, where interactions with other microbes may inhibit or facilitate dispersal. Here, we demonstrate that motile bacteria in cheese rind microbiomes use physical networks created by filamentous fungi for dispersal, and that these interactions can shape microbial community structure. Serratia proteamaculans and other motile cheese rind bacteria disperse on fungal networks by swimming in the liquid layers formed on fungal hyphae. RNA-sequencing, transposon mutagenesis, and comparative genomics identify potential genetic mechanisms, including flagella-mediated motility, that control bacterial dispersal on hyphae. By manipulating fungal networks in experimental communities, we demonstrate that fungal-mediated bacterial dispersal can shift cheese rind microbiome composition by promoting the growth of motile over non-motile community members. Our single-cell to whole-community systems approach highlights the interactive dynamics of bacterial motility in multispecies microbiomes.
APOBEC3H (A3H) is a member of the APOBEC3 subfamily of DNA cytosine deaminases that are important for innate immune defense and have been implicated in cancer biogenesis. To understand the structural basis for A3H biochemical function, we determined a high-resolution structure of human A3H and performed extensive biochemical analysis. The 2.49 Å crystal structure reveals a uniquely long C-terminal helix 6 (h6), a disrupted β5 strand of the canonical five-stranded β-sheet core, and a long loop 1 around the Zn-active center. Mutation of a loop 7 residue, W115, disrupted the RNA-mediated dimerization of A3H yielding an RNA-free monomeric form that still possessed nucleic acid binding and deaminase activity. A3H expressed in HEK293T cells showed RNA dependent HMW complex formation and RNase A-dependent deaminase activity. A3H has a highly positively charged surface surrounding the Zn-active center, and multiple positively charged residues within this charged surface play an important role in the RNA-mediated HMW formation and deaminase inhibition. Furthermore, these positively charged residues affect subcellular localization of A3H between the nucleus and cytosol. Finally, we have identified multiple residues of loop 1 and 7 that contribute to the overall deaminase activity and the methylcytosine selectivity.
Embryonic development is initially controlled by maternal RNAs and proteins stored in the oocyte, until gene products gradually generated by the embryo itself take over. Major embryonic genome activation (EGA) in bovine embryos occurs at the eight- to 16-cell stage. Morphological observations, such as size of blastomeres and distribution of microvilli, suggested heterogeneity among individual cells already at this developmental stage. To address cell heterogeneity on the transcriptome level, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing of 161 blastomeres from 14 in vitro produced bovine embryos at Day 2 (n = 6) and Day 3 (n = 8) post fertilization. Complementary DNA libraries were prepared using the Single-Cell RNA-Barcoding and Sequencing protocol and sequenced. Non-supervised clustering of single-cell transcriptome profiles identified six clusters with specific sets of genes. Most embryos were comprised of cells from at least two different clusters. Sorting cells according to their transcriptome profiles resulted in a non-branched pseudo-time line, arguing against major lineage inclination events at this developmental stage. In summary, our study revealed heterogeneity of transcriptome profiles among single cells in bovine Day 2 and Day 3 embryos, suggesting asynchronous blastomere development during the phase of major EGA.
Leiomyosarcoma (LMS) is an aggressive mesenchymal malignancy with few therapeutic options. The mechanisms underlying LMS development, including clinically actionable genetic vulnerabilities, are largely unknown. Here we show, using whole-exome and transcriptome sequencing, that LMS tumors are characterized by substantial mutational heterogeneity, near-universal inactivation of TP53 and RB1, widespread DNA copy number alterations including chromothripsis, and frequent whole-genome duplication. Furthermore, we detect alternative telomere lengthening in 78% of cases and identify recurrent alterations in telomere maintenance genes such as ATRX, RBL2, and SP100, providing insight into the genetic basis of this mechanism. Finally, most tumors display hallmarks of "BRCAness", including alterations in homologous recombination DNA repair genes, multiple structural rearrangements, and enrichment of specific mutational signatures, and cultured LMS cells are sensitive towards olaparib and cisplatin. This comprehensive study of LMS genomics has uncovered key biological features that may inform future experimental research and enable the design of novel therapies.
In this report, we present an improved protocol for CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing in mice. The procedure consists in the electroporation of intact mouse zygotes with ribonucleoprotein complexes prepared in vitro from recombinant Cas9 nuclease and synthetic dual guide RNA. This simple cloning-free method proves to be extremely efficient for the generation of indels and small deletions by non-homologous end joining, and for the generation of specific point mutations by homology-directed repair. The procedure, which avoids DNA construction, in vitro transcription and oocyte microinjection, greatly simplifies genome editing in mice.
Elucidating the factors governing the functional compatibility of horizontally transferred genes is important to understand bacterial evolution, including the emergence and spread of antibiotic resistance, and to successfully engineer biological systems. In silico efforts and work using single-gene libraries have suggested that sequence composition is a strong barrier for the successful integration of heterologous genes. Here we sample 200 diverse genes, representing >80% of sequenced antibiotic resistance genes, to interrogate the factors governing genetic compatibility in new hosts. In contrast to previous work, we find that GC content, codon usage, and mRNA-folding energy are of minor importance for the compatibility of mechanistically diverse gene products at moderate expression. Instead, we identify the phylogenetic origin, and the dependence of a resistance mechanism on host physiology, as major factors governing the functionality and fitness of antibiotic resistance genes. These findings emphasize the importance of biochemical mechanism for heterologous gene compatibility, and suggest physiological constraints as a pivotal feature orienting the evolution of antibiotic resistance.
To accurately recapitulate the heterogeneity of human diseases, animal models require to recreate multiple complex genetic alterations. Here, we combine the RCAS-TVA system with the CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing tools for precise modeling of human tumors. We show that somatic deletion in neural stem cells of a variety of known tumor suppressor genes (Trp53, Cdkn2a, and Pten) leads to high-grade glioma formation. Moreover, by simultaneous delivery of pairs of guide RNAs we generate different gene fusions with oncogenic potential, either by chromosomal deletion (Bcan-Ntrk1) or by chromosomal translocation (Myb-Qk). Lastly, using homology-directed-repair, we also produce tumors carrying the homologous mutation to human BRAF V600E, frequently identified in a variety of tumors, including different types of gliomas. In summary, we have developed an extremely versatile mouse model for in vivo somatic genome editing, that will elicit the generation of more accurate cancer models particularly appropriate for pre-clinical testing.
TMEM132D is a candidate gene, where risk genotypes have been associated with anxiety severity along with higher mRNA expression in the frontal cortex of panic disorder patients. Concurrently, in a high (HAB) and low (LAB) trait anxiety mouse model, Tmem132d was found to show increased expression in the anterior cingulate cortex (aCC) of HAB as compared to LAB mice. To understand the molecular underpinnings underlying the differential expression, we sequenced the gene and found two single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the promoter differing between both lines which could explain the observed mRNA expression profiles using gene reporter assays. In addition, there was no difference in basal DNA methylation in the CpG Island that encompasses the HAB vs. LAB Tmem132d promoter region. Furthermore, we found significantly higher binding of RNA polymerase II (POLR2A) to the proximal HAB-specific SNP (rs233264624) than the corresponding LAB locus in an oligonucleotide pull-down assay, suggesting increased transcription. Virus mediated overexpression of Tmem132d in the aCC of C57BL/6 J mice could confirm its role in mediating an anxiogenic phenotype. To model gene-environmental interactions, HAB mice exposed to enriched environment (HAB-EE) responded with decreased anxiety levels but, had enhanced Tmem132d mRNA expression as compared to standard-housed HAB (HAB-SH) mice. While LAB mice subjected to unpredictable chronic mild stress (LAB-UCMS) exhibited higher anxiety levels and had lower mRNA expression compared to standard-housed LAB (LAB-SH) mice. Chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed significantly higher binding of POLR2A to rs233264624 in HAB-EE, while LAB-UCMS had lower POLR2A binding at this locus, thus explaining the enhanced or attenuated expression of Tmem132d compared to their respective SH controls. To further investigate gene-environment interactions, DNA methylation was assessed using Illumina 450 K BeadChip in 74 panic disorder patients. Significant methylation differences were observed in two CpGs (cg26322591 and cg03283235) located in TMEM132D depending on the number of positive life events supporting the results of an influence of positive environmental cues on regulation of Tmem132d expression in mice.
Micronutrient status of parents can affect long term health of their progeny. Around 2 billion humans are affected by chronic micronutrient deficiency. In this study we use zebrafish as a model system to examine morphological, molecular and epigenetic changes in mature offspring of parents that experienced a one-carbon (1-C) micronutrient deficiency. Zebrafish were fed a diet sufficient, or marginally deficient in 1-C nutrients (folate, vitamin B12, vitamin B6, methionine, choline), and then mated. Offspring livers underwent histological examination, RNA sequencing and genome-wide DNA methylation analysis. Parental 1-C micronutrient deficiency resulted in increased lipid inclusion and we identified 686 differentially expressed genes in offspring liver, the majority of which were downregulated. Downregulated genes were enriched for functional categories related to sterol, steroid and lipid biosynthesis, as well as mitochondrial protein synthesis. Differential DNA methylation was found at 2869 CpG sites, enriched in promoter regions and permutation analyses confirmed the association with parental feed. Our data indicate that parental 1-C nutrient status can persist as locus specific DNA methylation marks in descendants and suggest an effect on lipid utilization and mitochondrial protein translation in F1 livers. This points toward parental micronutrients status as an important factor for offspring health and welfare.
Genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) or restriction-site associated DNA marker sequencing (RAD-seq) is a practical and cost-effective method for analysing large genomes from high diversity species. This method of sequencing, coupled with methylation-sensitive enzymes (often referred to as methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme sequencing or MRE-seq), is an effective tool to study DNA methylation in parts of the genome that are inaccessible in other sequencing techniques or are not annotated in microarray technologies. Current software tools do not fulfil all methylation-sensitive restriction sequencing assays for determining differences in DNA methylation between samples. To fill this computational need, we present msgbsR, an R package that contains tools for the analysis of methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme sequencing experiments. msgbsR can be used to identify and quantify read counts at methylated sites directly from alignment files (BAM files) and enables verification of restriction enzyme cut sites with the correct recognition sequence of the individual enzyme. In addition, msgbsR assesses DNA methylation based on read coverage, similar to RNA sequencing experiments, rather than methylation proportion and is a useful tool in analysing differential methylation on large populations. The package is fully documented and available freely online as a Bioconductor package (https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/msgbsR.html).
Modification of membrane receptor makeup is one of the most efficient ways to control input-output signals but is usually achieved by expressing DNA or RNA-encoded proteins or by using other genome-editing methods, which can be technically challenging and produce unwanted side effects. Here we develop and validate a nanodelivery approach to transfer in vitro synthesized, functional membrane receptors into the plasma membrane of living cells. Using β2-adrenergic receptor (β2AR), a prototypical G-protein coupled receptor, as an example, we demonstrated efficient incorporation of a full-length β2AR into a variety of mammalian cells, which imparts pharmacologic control over cellular signaling and affects cellular phenotype in an ex-vivo wound-healing model. Our approach for nanodelivery of functional membrane receptors expands the current toolkit for DNA and RNA-free manipulation of cellular function. We expect this approach to be readily applicable to the synthesis and nanodelivery of other types of GPCRs and membrane receptors, opening new doors for therapeutic development at the intersection between synthetic biology and nanomedicine.
Using CRISPR/Cas9 delivered as a RNA modality in conjunction with a lipid specifically formulated for large RNA molecules, we demonstrate that homology directed repair (HDR) rates between 20-40% can be achieved in induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC). Furthermore, low HDR rates (between 1-20%) can be enhanced two- to ten-fold in both iPSCs and HEK293 cells by 'cold shocking' cells at 32 °C for 24-48 hours following transfection. This method can also increases the proportion of loci that have undergone complete sequence conversion across the donor sequence, or 'perfect HDR', as opposed to partial sequence conversion where nucleotides more distal to the CRISPR cut site are less efficiently incorporated ('partial HDR'). We demonstrate that the structure of the single-stranded DNA oligo donor can influence the fidelity of HDR, with oligos symmetric with respect to the CRISPR cleavage site and complementary to the target strand being more efficient at directing 'perfect HDR' compared to asymmetric non-target strand complementary oligos. Our protocol represents an efficient method for making CRISPR-mediated, specific DNA sequence changes within the genome that will facilitate the rapid generation of genetic models of human disease in iPSCs as well as other genome engineered cell lines.
Mutations in C9ORF72 are the most common cause of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Here, through a combination of RNA-Seq and electrophysiological studies on induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived motor neurons (MNs), we show that increased expression of GluA1 AMPA receptor (AMPAR) subunit occurs in MNs with C9ORF72 mutations that leads to increased Ca2+-permeable AMPAR expression and results in enhanced selective MN vulnerability to excitotoxicity. These deficits are not found in iPSC-derived cortical neurons and are abolished by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated correction of the C9ORF72 repeat expansion in MNs. We also demonstrate that MN-specific dysregulation of AMPAR expression is also present in C9ORF72 patient post-mortem material. We therefore present multiple lines of evidence for the specific upregulation of GluA1 subunits in human mutant C9ORF72 MNs that could lead to a potential pathogenic excitotoxic mechanism in ALS.
Dryland agriculture nourishes one third of global population, although crop irrigation is often mandatory. As freshwater sources are scarce, treated and untreated wastewater is increasingly used for irrigation. Here, we investigated how the transformation of semiarid shrubland into rainfed farming or irrigated agriculture with freshwater, dam-stored or untreated wastewater affects the total (DNA-based) and active (RNA-based) soil bacterial community composition, diversity, and functionality. To do this we collected soil samples during the dry and rainy seasons and isolated DNA and RNA. Soil moisture, sodium content and pH were the strongest drivers of the bacterial community composition. We found lineage-specific adaptations to drought and sodium content in specific land use systems. Predicted functionality profiles revealed gene abundances involved in nitrogen, carbon and phosphorous cycles differed among land use systems and season. Freshwater irrigated bacterial community is taxonomically and functionally susceptible to seasonal environmental changes, while wastewater irrigated ones are taxonomically susceptible but functionally resistant to them. Additionally, we identified potentially harmful human and phytopathogens. The analyses of 16 S rRNA genes, its transcripts and deduced functional profiles provided extensive understanding of the short-term and long-term responses of bacterial communities associated to land use, seasonality, and water quality used for irrigation in drylands.
Prohibitin 2 (PHB2), as a conserved multifunctional protein, is traditionally localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane and essential for maintenance of mitochondrial function. Here, we investigated the role of PHB2 in human rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) RD cells and found substantial localization of PHB2 in the nucleolus. We demonstrated that PHB2 knockdown inhibited RD cell proliferation through inducing cell cycle arrest and suppressing DNA synthesis. Meanwhile, down-regulation of PHB2 also induced apoptosis and promoted differentiation in fractions of RD cells. In addition, PHB2 silencing led to altered nucleolar morphology, as observed by transmission electron microscopy, and impaired nucleolar function, as evidenced by down-regulation of 45S and 18S ribosomal RNA synthesis. Consistently, upon PHB2 knockdown, occupancy of c-Myc at the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) promoter was attenuated, while more myoblast determination protein 1 (MyoD) molecules bound to the rDNA promoter. In conclusion, our findings suggest that nucleolar PHB2 is involved in maintaining nucleolar morphology and function in RD cells by regulating a variety of transcription factors, which is likely to be one of the underlying mechanisms by which PHB2 promotes tumor proliferation and represses differentiation. Our study provides new insight into the pathogenesis of RMS and novel characterizations of the highly conserved PHB2 protein.
Reverse genetics systems enable the manipulation of viral genomes and are proving to be essential for studying RNA viruses. Methods for generating clonal virus populations are particularly useful for studying the impact of genomic modifications on viral properties. Here, by exploiting a chikungunya virus model, we compare viral populations and their replicative fitness when generated using either the rapid and user-friendly PCR-based ISA (Infectious Subgenomic Amplicons) method or classical infectious clone technology. As anticipated, the ISA method resulted in greater genetic diversity of the viral populations, but no significant difference in viral fitness in vitro was observed. On the basis of these results, a new ISA-derived reverse genetics procedure was developed. This method, designated 'SuPReMe' (Subgenomic Plasmids Recombination Method), in which digested plasmids containing subgenomic DNA fragments were directly transfected into permissive cells, retains the following major advantages of the ISA method: it is rapid, flexible and does not require the cloning of complete genomes. Moreover, SuPReMe has been shown to produce virus populations with genetic diversity and replicative fitness similar to those obtained using conventional infectious clone technology. SuPReMe, therefore, represents an effective and promising option for the rapid generation of clonal recombinant populations of single-stranded positive-sense RNA viruses.
Sequencing-based microbiome profiling aims at detecting and quantifying individual members of a microbial community in a culture-independent manner. While amplicon-based sequencing (ABS) of bacterial or fungal ribosomal DNA is the most widely used technology due to its low cost, it suffers from PCR amplification biases that hinder accurate representation of microbial population structures. Shotgun metagenomics (SMG) conversely allows unbiased microbiome profiling but requires high sequencing depth. Here we report the development of a meta-total RNA sequencing (MeTRS) method based on shotgun sequencing of total RNA and benchmark it on a human stool sample spiked in with known abundances of bacterial and fungal cells. MeTRS displayed the highest overall sensitivity and linearity for both bacteria and fungi, the greatest reproducibility compared to SMG and ABS, while requiring a ~20-fold lower sequencing depth than SMG. We therefore present MeTRS as a valuable alternative to existing technologies for large-scale profiling of complex microbiomes.
The rpoB gene encodes the β subunit of RNA polymerase holoenzyme in Mycobacterium leprae (M. leprae). Missense mutations in the rpoB gene were identified as etiological factors for rifampin resistance in leprosy. In the present study, we identified mutations corresponding to rifampin resistance in relapsed leprosy cases from three hospitals in southern India which treat leprosy patients. DNA was extracted from skin biopsies of 35 relapse/multidrug therapy non-respondent leprosy cases, and PCR was performed to amplify the 276 bp rifampin resistance-determining region of the rpoB gene. PCR products were sequenced, and mutations were identified in four out of the 35 cases at codon positions D441Y, D441V, S437L and H476R. The structural and functional effects of these mutations were assessed in the context of three-dimensional comparative models of wild-type and mutant M. leprae RNA polymerase holoenzyme (RNAP), based on the recently solved crystal structures of RNAP of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, containing a synthetic nucleic acid scaffold and rifampin. The resistance mutations were observed to alter the hydrogen-bonding and hydrophobic interactions of rifampin and the 5′ ribonucleotide of the growing RNA transcript. This study demonstrates that rifampin-resistant strains of M. leprae among leprosy patients in southern India are likely to arise from mutations that affect the drug-binding site and stability of RNAP.
Interactions of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNA) with proteins play important roles in the regulation of many cellular processes. PANDAR (Promotor of CDKN1A Antisense DNA damage Activated RNA) is a lncRNA that is transcribed in a p53-dependent manner from the CDKN1A promoter and is involved in the regulation of proliferation and senescence. Overexpression of PANDAR has been observed in several tumor species and correlated with a poor prognosis for patient survival rate. Depending on the cellular state, PANDAR is known to interact with proteins such as the nuclear transcription factor Y subunit A (NF-YA) and the scaffold attachment factor A (SAF-A). However, a comprehensive analysis of the PANDAR interactome was missing so far. Therefore, we applied peptide nucleic acid (PNA)-based pull-downs combined with quantitative mass spectrometry to identify new protein binding partners. We confirmed potential candidates like U2AF65 and PTBP1, known to be involved in RNA processing. Furthermore, we observed that overexpression of PANDAR leads to a reduced level of the short pro-apoptotic BCL-X splice variant (BCL-XS) which is regulated by PTBP1. Simultaneous overexpression of PTBP1 was able to rescue this effect. Overall, our data suggest a role for PANDAR in the regulation of splicing events via its interaction partner PTBP1.
People with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) have a 25-fold higher risk of limb loss than non-diabetics due in large part to impaired wound healing. Here, we show that the impaired wound healing phenotype found in T2D mice is recapitulated in lethally irradiated wild type recipients, whose hematopoiesis is reconstituted with hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) from T2D mice, indicating an HSC-autonomous mechanism. This impaired wound healing phenotype of T2D mice is due to a Nox-2-dependent increase in HSC oxidant stress that decreases microRNA let-7d-3p, which, in turn, directly upregulates Dnmt1, leading to the hypermethylation of Notch1, PU.1, and Klf4. This HSC-autonomous mechanism reduces the number of wound macrophages and skews their polarization towards M1 macrophages. These findings reveal a novel inflammatory mechanism by which a metabolic disorder induces an epigenetic mechanism in HSCs, which predetermines the gene expression of terminally differentiated inflammatory cells that controls their number and function.
Within canonical eukaryotic nuclei, DNA is packaged with highly conserved histone proteins into nucleosomes, which facilitate DNA condensation and contribute to genomic regulation. Yet the dinoflagellates, a group of unicellular algae, are a striking exception to this otherwise universal feature as they have largely abandoned histones and acquired apparently viral-derived substitutes termed DVNPs (dinoflagellate-viral-nucleoproteins). Despite the magnitude of this transition, its evolutionary drivers remain unknown. Here, using Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model, we show that DVNP impairs growth and antagonizes chromatin by localizing to histone binding sites, displacing nucleosomes, and impairing transcription. Furthermore, DVNP toxicity can be relieved through histone depletion and cells diminish their histones in response to DVNP expression suggesting that histone reduction could have been an adaptive response to these viral proteins. These findings provide insights into eukaryotic chromatin evolution and highlight the potential for horizontal gene transfer to drive the divergence of cellular systems.
Macrodomains are conserved protein folds associated with ADP-ribose binding and turnover. ADP-ribosylation is a posttranslational modification catalyzed primarily by ARTD (aka PARP) enzymes in cells. ARTDs transfer either single or multiple ADP-ribose units to substrates, resulting in mono-or poly-ADP-ribosylation. TARG1/C6orf130 is a macrodomain protein that hydrolyzes mono-ADP-ribosylation and interacts with poly-ADP-ribose chains. Interactome analyses revealed that TARG1 binds strongly to ribosomes and proteins associated with rRNA processing and ribosomal assembly factors. TARG1 localized to transcriptionally active nucleoli, which occurred independently of ADP-ribose binding. TARG1 shuttled continuously between nucleoli and nucleoplasm. In response to DNA damage, which activates ARTD1/2 (PARP1/2) and promotes synthesis of poly-ADP-ribose chains, TARG1 re-localized to the nucleoplasm. This was dependent on the ability of TARG1 to bind to poly-ADP-ribose. These findings are consistent with the observed ability of TARG1 to competitively interact with RNA and PAR chains. We propose a nucleolar role of TARG1 in ribosome assembly or quality control that is stalled when TARG1 is re-located to sites of DNA damage.
DNA methylation age is an accurate biomarker of chronological age and predicts lifespan, but its underlying molecular mechanisms are unknown. In this genome-wide association study of 9907 individuals, we find gene variants mapping to five loci associated with intrinsic epigenetic age acceleration (IEAA) and gene variants in three loci associated with extrinsic epigenetic age acceleration (EEAA). Mendelian randomization analysis suggests causal influences of menarche and menopause on IEAA and lipoproteins on IEAA and EEAA. Variants associated with longer leukocyte telomere length (LTL) in the telomerase reverse transcriptase gene (TERT) paradoxically confer higher IEAA (P < 2.7 × 10-11). Causal modeling indicates TERT-specific and independent effects on LTL and IEAA. Experimental hTERT-expression in primary human fibroblasts engenders a linear increase in DNA methylation age with cell population doubling number. Together, these findings indicate a critical role for hTERT in regulating the epigenetic clock, in addition to its established role of compensating for cell replication-dependent telomere shortening.
The large expansion of GGGGCC (G4C2) repeats of the C9orf72 gene have been found to lead to the pathogenesis of devastating neurological diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). The structural polymorphisms of C9orf72 HRE DNA and RNA may cause aberrant transcription and contribute to the development of ALS and FTD. Here we showed that the two-repeat G4C2 DNA, d(G4C2)2, simultaneously formed parallel and antiparallel G-quadruplex conformations in the potassium solution. We separated different folds of d(G4C2)2 by anion exchange chromatography, followed with characterizations by circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The parallel d(G4C2)2 G-quadruplex folded as a symmetric tetramer, while the antiparallel d(G4C2)2 adopted the topology of an asymmetric dimer. These folds are distinct from the antiparallel chair-type conformation we previously identified for the d(G4C2)4 G-quadruplex. Our findings have demonstrated the conformational heterogeneity of the C9orf72 HRE DNA, and provided new insights into the d(G4C2)n folding. Meanwhile, the purified d(G4C2)2 G-quadruplex samples are suitable for further three-dimensional structure characterizations, which are required for the structure-based design of small molecules targeting ALS and FTD related C9orf72 HRE.
Potentiating anti-tumor immunity by inducing tumor inflammation and T cell-mediated responses are a promising area of cancer therapy. Immunomodulatory agents that promote these effects function via a wide variety of mechanisms, including upregulation of antigen presentation pathways. Here, we show that major histocompatibility class-I (MHC-I) genes are methylated in human breast cancers, suppressing their expression. Treatment of breast cancer cell lines with a next-generation hypomethylating agent, guadecitabine, upregulates MHC-I expression in response to interferon-γ. In murine tumor models of breast cancer, guadecitabine upregulates MHC-I in tumor cells promoting recruitment of CD8+ T cells to the microenvironment. Finally, we show that MHC-I genes are upregulated in breast cancer patients treated with hypomethylating agents. Thus, the immunomodulatory effects of hypomethylating agents likely involve upregulation of class-I antigen presentation to potentiate CD8+ T cell responses. These strategies may be useful to potentiate anti-tumor immunity and responses to checkpoint inhibition in immune-refractory breast cancers.
Epigenetic modifications affect the differentiation of T cell subsets and the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, but many mechanisms of epigenetic regulation of T cell differentiation are unclear. Here we show reduced expression of the transcription factor RFX1 in CD4+ T cells from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, which leads to IL-17A overexpression through increased histone H3 acetylation and decreased DNA methylation and H3K9 tri-methylation. Conditional deletion of Rfx1 in mice exacerbates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and pristane-induced lupus-like syndrome and increases induction of Th17 cells. In vitro, Rfx1 deficiency increases the differentiation of naive CD4+ T cells into Th17 cells, but this effect can be reversed by forced expression of Rfx1. Importantly, RFX1 functions downstream of STAT3 and phosphorylated STAT3 can inhibit RFX1 expression, highlighting a non-canonical pathway that regulates differentiation of Th17 cells. Collectively, our findings identify a unique role for RFX1 in Th17-related autoimmune diseases.
BRCA1-BARD1-catalyzed ubiquitination of histone H2A is an important regulator of the DNA damage response, priming chromatin for repair by homologous recombination. However, no specific deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) are known to antagonize this function. Here we identify ubiquitin specific protease-48 (USP48) as a H2A DUB, specific for the C-terminal BRCA1 ubiquitination site. Detailed biochemical analysis shows that an auxiliary ubiquitin, an additional ubiquitin that itself does not get cleaved, modulates USP48 activity, which has possible implications for its regulation in vivo. In cells we reveal that USP48 antagonizes BRCA1 E3 ligase function and in BRCA1-proficient cells loss of USP48 results in positioning 53BP1 further from the break site and in extended resection lengths. USP48 repression confers a survival benefit to cells treated with camptothecin and its activity acts to restrain gene conversion and mutagenic single-strand annealing. We propose that USP48 promotes genome stability by antagonizing BRCA1 E3 ligase function.
Triple negative breast cancers (TNBCs) lack recurrent targetable driver mutations but demonstrate frequent copy number aberrations (CNAs). Here, we describe an integrative genomic and RNAi-based approach that identifies and validates gene addictions in TNBCs. CNAs and gene expression alterations are integrated and genes scored for pre-specified target features revealing 130 candidate genes. We test functional dependence on each of these genes using RNAi in breast cancer and non-malignant cells, validating malignant cell selective dependence upon 37 of 130 genes. Further analysis reveals a cluster of 13 TNBC addiction genes frequently co-upregulated that includes genes regulating cell cycle checkpoints, DNA damage response, and malignant cell selective mitotic genes. We validate the mechanism of addiction to a potential drug target: the mitotic kinesin family member C1 (KIFC1/HSET), essential for successful bipolar division of centrosome-amplified malignant cells and develop a potential selection biomarker to identify patients with tumors exhibiting centrosome amplification.
CRISPR-Cas systems offer an immune mechanism through which prokaryotic hosts can acquire heritable resistance to genetic parasites, including temperate phages. Co-transcriptional DNA and RNA targeting by type III-A CRISPR-Cas systems restricts temperate phage lytic infections while allowing lysogenic infections to be tolerated under conditions where the prophage targets are transcriptionally repressed. However, long-term consequences of this phenomenon have not been explored. Here we show that maintenance of conditionally tolerant type III-A systems can produce fitness costs within populations of Staphylococcus aureus lysogens. The fitness costs depend on the activity of prophage-internal promoters and type III-A Cas nucleases implicated in targeting, can be more severe in double lysogens, and are alleviated by spacer-target mismatches which do not abrogate immunity during the lytic cycle. These findings suggest that persistence of type III-A systems that target endogenous prophages could be enhanced by spacer-target mismatches, particularly among populations that are prone to polylysogenization. CRISPR-Cas systems, such as type III-A CRISPR-Cas, provide an immune mechanism for prokaryotic hosts to resist parasites, including phages. Here, the authors show that maintenance of conditionally tolerant type III-A systems can affect the fitness of Staphylococcus aureus lysogens.
During development, the formation of a mature, well-functioning heart requires transformation of the ventricular wall from a loose trabecular network into a dense compact myocardium at mid-gestation. Failure to compact is associated in humans with congenital diseases such as left ventricular non-compaction (LVNC). The mechanisms regulating myocardial compaction are however still poorly understood. Here, we show that deletion of the Ino80 chromatin remodeler in vascular endothelial cells prevents ventricular compaction in the developing mouse heart. This correlates with defective coronary vascularization, and specific deletion of Ino80 in the two major coronary progenitor tissues-sinus venosus and endocardium-causes intermediate phenotypes. In vitro, endothelial cells promote myocardial expansion independently of blood flow in an Ino80-dependent manner. Ino80 deletion increases the expression of E2F-Activated genes and endothelial cell S-phase occupancy. Thus, Ino80 is essential for coronary angiogenesis and allows coronary vessels to support proper compaction of the heart wall.
Viral infections associate with disease risk and select families of viruses encode miRNAs that control an efficient viral cycle. The association of viral miRNA expression with disease in a large human population has not been previously explored. We sequenced plasma RNA from 40 participants of the Framingham Heart Study (FHS, Offspring Cohort, Visit 8) and identified 3 viral miRNAs from 3 different human Herpesviridae. These miRNAs were mostly related to viral latency and have not been previously detected in human plasma. Viral miRNA expression was then screened in the plasma of 2763 participants of the remaining cohort utilizing high-throughput RT-qPCR. All 3 viral miRNAs associated with combinations of inflammatory or prothrombotic circulating biomarkers (sTNFRII, IL-6, sICAM1, OPG, P-selectin) but did not associate with hypertension, coronary heart disease or cancer. Using a large observational population, we demonstrate that the presence of select viral miRNAs in the human circulation associate with inflammatory biomarkers and possibly immune response, but fail to associate with overt disease. This study greatly extends smaller singular observations of viral miRNAs in the human circulation and suggests that select viral miRNAs, such as those for latency, may not impact disease manifestation.
Quantifying heterogeneities within cell populations is important for many fields including cancer research and neurobiology; however, techniques to isolate individual cells are limited. Here, we describe a high-throughput, non-disruptive, and cost-effective isolation method that is capable of capturing individually targeted cells using widely available techniques. Using high-resolution microscopy, laser microcapture microscopy, image analysis, and machine learning, our technology enables scalable molecular genetic analysis of single cells, targetable by morphology or location within the sample.
Recurrent chromosomal aberrations have led to the discovery of oncogenes or tumour suppressors involved in carcinogenesis. Here we characterized an oncogenic long intergenic non-coding RNA in the frequent DNA-gain regions in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), LINC01138 (long intergenic non-coding RNA located on 1q21.2). The LINC01138 locus is frequently amplified in HCC; the LINC01138 transcript is stabilized by insulin like growth factor-2 mRNA-binding proteins 1/3 (IGF2BP1/IGF2BP3) and is associated with the malignant features and poor outcomes of HCC patients. LINC01138 acts as an oncogenic driver that promotes cell proliferation, tumorigenicity, tumour invasion and metastasis by physically interacting with arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) and enhancing its protein stability by blocking ubiquitin/proteasome-dependent degradation in HCC. The discovery of LINC01138, a promising prognostic indicator, provides insight into the molecular pathogenesis of HCC, and the LINC01138/PRMT5 axis is an ideal therapeutic target for HCC treatment.
Activation of the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase is tightly controlled and involves a network of phosphorylation and, as yet unidentified, thiol-mediated events. Here, we characterize PLASTID REDOX INSENSITIVE2, a redox-regulated protein required for full PEP-driven transcription. PRIN2 dimers can be reduced into the active monomeric form by thioredoxins through reduction of a disulfide bond. Exposure to light increases the ratio between the monomeric and dimeric forms of PRIN2. Complementation of prin2-2 with different PRIN2 protein variants demonstrates that the monomer is required for light-activated PEP-dependent transcription and that expression of the nuclear-encoded photosynthesis genes is linked to the activity of PEP. Activation of PEP during chloroplast development likely is the source of a retrograde signal that promotes nuclear LHCB expression. Thus, regulation of PRIN2 is the thiol-mediated mechanism required for full PEP activity, with PRIN2 monomerization via reduction by TRXs providing a mechanistic link between photosynthetic electron transport and activation of photosynthetic gene expression.
The binding of the transcriptional regulator CTCF to the genome has been implicated in the formation of topologically associated domains (TADs). However, the general mechanisms of folding the genome into TADs are not fully understood. Here we test the effects of deleting a CTCF-rich locus on TAD boundary formation. Using genome-wide chromosome conformation capture (Hi-C), we focus on one TAD boundary on chromosome X harboring ~ 15 CTCF binding sites and located at the long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) locus Firre. Specifically, this TAD boundary is invariant across evolution, tissues, and temporal dynamics of X-chromosome inactivation. We demonstrate that neither the deletion of this locus nor the ectopic insertion of Firre cDNA or its ectopic expression are sufficient to alter TADs in a sex-specific or allele-specific manner. In contrast, Firre's deletion disrupts the chromatin super-loop formation of the inactive X-chromosome. Collectively, our findings suggest that apart from CTCF binding, additional mechanisms may play roles in establishing TAD boundary formation.
To evaluate the effects of maternal vitamin D deficiency on body fat and adipogenesis in offspring rats, and explore the potential mechanism, we constructed a vitamin D deficient rat model and performed metabolic activity evaluation, body fat monitoring, biochemical analysis, adipogenesis assay, methylation microarray and RNA-seq for their offspring rats. We found the weight of vitamin D deficient (VDD) offspring was gradually higher than that of control (CLT) offspring, and the difference was significant since 10 weeks old. When compared with CTL offspring, the 24 h heat production, peak blood glucose, adipose tissue volume and blood lipid indexes were significantly increased in VDD offspring at 14 weeks old. Moreover, a significant increase in proliferation rate and number of lipid droplets for pre-adipocytes was also observed in VDD offspring group. DNA methylation profiling showed that compared to CTL group, 608 promoters and 204 CpG islands were differentially methylated in the VDD group, involving 305 genes. When combined with the results of RNA-seq, 141 genes of the methylated genes were differentially expressed. In conclusion, vitamin D deficiency during pregnancy may promote the proliferation and differentiation of pre-adipocytes, which may be associated with methylation alterations of genes, ultimately leading to offspring obesity.
Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) is an established model for studying fruit biology; however, most studies of tomato fruit growth and ripening are based on homogenized pericarp, and do not consider the internal tissues, or the expression signatures of individual cell and tissue types. We present a spatiotemporally resolved transcriptome analysis of tomato fruit ontogeny, using laser microdissection (LM) or hand dissection coupled with RNA-Seq analysis. Regulatory and structural gene networks, including families of transcription factors and hormone synthesis and signaling pathways, are defined across tissue and developmental spectra. The ripening program is revealed as comprising gradients of gene expression, initiating in internal tissues then radiating outward, and basipetally along a latitudinal axis. We also identify spatial variations in the patterns of epigenetic control superimposed on ripening gradients. Functional studies elucidate previously masked regulatory phenomena and relationships, including those associated with fruit quality traits, such as texture, color, aroma, and metabolite profiles.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is highly heritable but genetically heterogeneous. The affected neural circuits and cell types remain unclear and may vary at different developmental stages. By analyzing multiple sets of human single cell transcriptome profiles, we found that ASD candidates showed relatively enriched gene expression in neurons, especially in inhibitory neurons. ASD candidates were also more likely to be the hubs of the co-expression gene module that is highly expressed in inhibitory neurons, a feature not detected for excitatory neurons. In addition, we found that upregulated genes in multiple ASD cortex samples were enriched with genes highly expressed in inhibitory neurons, suggesting a potential increase of inhibitory neurons and an imbalance in the ratio between excitatory and inhibitory neurons in ASD brains. Furthermore, the downstream targets of several ASD candidates, such as CHD8, EHMT1 and SATB2, also displayed enriched expression in inhibitory neurons. Taken together, our analyses of single cell transcriptomic data suggest that inhibitory neurons may be a major neuron subtype affected by the disruption of ASD gene networks, providing single cell functional evidence to support the excitatory/inhibitory (E/I) imbalance hypothesis.
In order to find clinically useful prognostic markers for glioma patients' survival, we employed Monte Carlo Feature Selection and Interdependencies Discovery (MCFS-ID) algorithm on DNA methylation (HumanMethylation450 platform) and RNA-seq datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) for 88 patients observed until death. The input features were ranked according to their importance in predicting patients' longer (400+ days) or shorter (≤400 days) survival without prior classification of the patients. Interestingly, out of the 65 most important features found, 63 are methylation sites, and only two mRNAs. Moreover, 61 out of the 63 methylation sites are among those detected by the 450 k array technology, while being absent in the HumanMethylation27. The most important methylation feature (cg15072976) overlaps with the RE1 Silencing Transcription Factor (REST) binding site, and was confirmed to intersect with the REST binding motif in human U87 glioma cells. Six additional methylation sites from the top 63 overlap with REST sites. We found that the methylation status of the cg15072976 site affects transcription factor binding in U87 cells in gel shift assay. The cg15072976 methylation status discriminates ≤400 and 400+ patients in an independent dataset from TCGA and shows positive association with survival time as evidenced by Kaplan-Meier plots.
This Article contains errors in the Methods section under subheading 'Encoding probe staining'. "Then 30 μL of ∼300 μM encoding probes and 3.3 μM of poly(dT) LNA anchor probe (a 20-nt sequence of alternating dT and thymidine-locked nucleic acid (dT+) with a 20-nt reverse complement of a readout sequence and a 5′-Acrydite modification (Integrated DNA Technologies)) in encoding hybridization buffer was added to the surface of Parafilm (Bemis) and was covered with a cell-containing coverslip." should read: "Then 30 μL of ∼50 μM encoding probes and 3.3 μM of poly(dT) LNA anchor probe (a 20-nt sequence of alternating dT and thymidine-locked nucleic acid (dT+) with a 20-nt reverse complement of a readout sequence and a 5′-Acrydite modification (Integrated DNA Technologies)) in encoding hybridization buffer was added to the surface of Parafilm (Bemis) and was covered with a cell-containing coverslip."
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNA molecules that play important roles in various biological processes. Much evidence shows that miRNAs are closely associated with numerous virus infections; however, involvement of cellular miRNAs in influenza A virus (IAV) infection is unclear. Here, we found that expression of miR-203 was up-regulated markedly via two different mechanisms during IAV infection. First, we examined the effects of type I interferon induced by IAV on direct activation of miR-203 expression. Next, we showed that DNA demethylation within the miR-203 promoter region in A549 cells induced its up-regulation, and that expression of DNA methyltransferase 1 was down-regulated following H5N1 virus infection. Ectopic expression of miR-203 in turn inhibited H5N1 virus replication by targeting down-regulator of transcription 1 (DR1), which was identified as a novel target of miR-203. Silencing DR1 in miR-203 knockout cells using a specific siRNA inhibited replication of the H5N1 virus, an effect similar to that of miR-203. In summary, the data show that host cell expression of miR-203 is up-regulated upon IAV infection, which increases antiviral responses by suppressing a novel target gene, DR1. Thus, we have identified a novel mechanism underlying the relationship between miR-203 and IAV infection.
In the past few years, many studies investigated the anaerobic digestion microbiome by means of 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. Results obtained from these studies were compared to each other without taking into consideration the followed procedure for amplicons preparation and data analysis. This negligence was mainly due to the lack of knowledge regarding the biases influencing specific steps of the microbiome investigation process. In the present study, the main technical aspects of the 16S rRNA analysis were checked giving special attention to the approach used for high throughput sequencing. More specifically, the microbial compositions of three laboratory scale biogas reactors were analyzed before and after addition of sodium oleate by sequencing the microbiome with three different approaches: 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing, shotgun DNA and shotgun RNA. This comparative analysis revealed that, in amplicon sequencing, abundance of some taxa (Euryarchaeota and Spirochaetes) was biased by the inefficiency of universal primers to hybridize all the templates. Reliability of the results obtained was also influenced by the number of hypervariable regions under investigation. Finally, amplicon sequencing and shotgun DNA underestimated the Methanoculleus genus, probably due to the low 16S rRNA gene copy number encoded in this taxon.
The bacterial CRISPR-Cas system provides adaptive immunity against invading phages. Cas9, an RNA-guided endonuclease, specifically cleaves target DNA substrates and constitutes a well-established platform for genome editing. Recently, anti-CRISPR (Acr) proteins that inhibit Cas9 have been discovered, promising a useful off-switch for Cas9 to avoid undesirable off-target effects. Here, we report the solution structure and dynamics of Listeria monocytogenes AcrIIA4 that inhibits Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9 (SpyCas9). AcrIIA4 forms a compact monomeric αβββαα fold comprising three antiparallel β strands flanked by three α-helices and a short 310-helix. AcrIIA4 exhibits distinct backbone dynamics in fast and slow timescales at loop regions that form interaction surfaces for SpyCas9. In particular, the β1-β2 loop that binds to the RuvC domain of SpyCas9 is highly mobile, and the β1-β2 and α2-α3 loops that bind to the RuvC and C-terminal domains of SpyCas9, respectively, undergoes conformational exchanges in microsecond-to-millisecond time scales. AcrIIA4 binds to apo-SpyCas9 with K D ∼4.8 μM, which compares to K D ∼0.6 nM for AcrIIA4 binding to sgRNA-bound SpyCas9. Since the binary complex between AcrIIA4 and SpyCas9 does not compete with the target DNA binding, it can effectively disable the Cas9 nuclease activity by forming a tight ternary complex in the presence of sgRNA.
Circadian rhythmicity governs a remarkable array of fundamental biological functions and is mediated by cyclical transcriptomic and proteomic activities. Epigenetic factors are also involved in this circadian machinery; however, despite extensive efforts, detection and characterization of circadian cytosine modifications at the nucleotide level have remained elusive. In this study, we report that a large proportion of epigenetically variable cytosines show a circadian pattern in their modification status in mice. Importantly, the cytosines with circadian epigenetic oscillations significantly overlap with the cytosines exhibiting age-related changes in their modification status. Our findings suggest that evolutionary advantageous processes such as circadian rhythmicity can also contribute to an organism's deterioration.
Ixr1 is a Saccharomyces cerevisiae HMGB protein that regulates the hypoxic regulon and also controls the expression of other genes involved in the oxidative stress response or re-adaptation of catabolic and anabolic fluxes when oxygen is limiting. Ixr1 also binds with high affinity to cisplatin-DNA adducts and modulates DNA repair. The influence of Ixr1 on transcription in the absence or presence of cisplatin has been analyzed in this work. Ixr1 regulates other transcriptional factors that respond to nutrient availability or extracellular and intracellular stress stimuli, some controlled by the TOR pathway and PKA signaling. Ixr1 controls transcription of ribosomal RNAs and genes encoding ribosomal proteins or involved in ribosome assembly. qPCR, ChIP, and 18S and 25S rRNAs measurement have confirmed this function. Ixr1 binds directly to several promoters of genes related to rRNA transcription and ribosome biogenesis. Cisplatin treatment mimics the effect of IXR1 deletion on rRNA and ribosomal gene transcription, and prevents Ixr1 binding to specific promoters related to these processes.
Allopolyploid formation involves two major events: interspecific hybridization and polyploidization. A number of species in the Asteraceae family are polyploids because of frequent hybridization. The effects of hybridization on genomics and transcriptomics in Chrysanthemum nankingense×Tanacetum vulgare hybrids have been reported. In this study, we obtained allopolyploids by applying a colchicine treatment to a synthesized C. nankingense×T. vulgare hybrid. Sequence-related amplified polymorphism (SRAP), methylation-sensitive amplification polymorphism (MSAP), and high-throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) technologies were used to investigate the genomic, epigenetic, and transcriptomic alterations in both the hybrid and allopolyploids. The genomic alterations in the hybrid and allopolyploids mainly involved the loss of parental fragments and the gain of novel fragments. The DNA methylation level of the hybrid was reduced by hybridization but was restored somewhat after polyploidization. There were more significant differences in gene expression between the hybrid/allopolyploid and the paternal parent than between the hybrid/allopolyploid and the maternal parent. Most differentially expressed genes (DEGs) showed down-regulation in the hybrid/allopolyploid relative to the parents. Among the non-additive genes, transgressive patterns appeared to be dominant, especially repression patterns. Maternal expression dominance was observed specifically for down-regulated genes. Many methylase and methyltransferase genes showed differential expression between the hybrid and parents and between the allopolyploid and parents. Our data indicate that hybridization may be a major factor affecting genomic and transcriptomic changes in newly formed allopolyploids. The formation of allopolyploids may not simply be the sum of hybridization and polyploidization changes but also may be influenced by the interaction between these processes.
Unraveling the mechanism of action and molecular target of small molecules remains a major challenge in drug discovery. While many cancer drugs target genetic vulnerabilities, loss-of-function screens fail to identify essential genes in drug mechanism of action. Here, we report CRISPRres, a CRISPR-Cas-based genetic screening approach to rapidly derive and identify drug resistance mutations in essential genes. It exploits the local genetic variation created by CRISPR-Cas-induced non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) repair to generate a wide variety of functional in-frame mutations. Using large sgRNA tiling libraries and known drug-target pairs, we validate it as a target identification approach. We apply CRISPRres to the anticancer agent KPT-9274 and identify nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) as its main target. These results present a powerful and simple genetic approach to create many protein variants that, in combination with positive selection, can be applied to reveal the cellular target of small-molecule inhibitors.
The mammalian inactive X chromosome (Xi) condenses into a bipartite structure with two superdomains of frequent long-range contacts, separated by a hinge region. Using Hi-C in edited mouse cells with allelic deletions or inversions within the hinge, here we show that the conserved Dxz4 locus is necessary to maintain this bipartite structure. Dxz4 orientation controls the distribution of contacts on the Xi, as shown by a massive reversal in long-range contacts after Dxz4 inversion. Despite an increase in CTCF binding and chromatin accessibility on the Xi in Dxz4-edited cells, only minor changes in TAD structure and gene expression were detected, in accordance with multiple epigenetic mechanisms ensuring X silencing. We propose that Dxz4 represents a structural platform for frequent long-range contacts with multiple loci in a direction dictated by the orientation of its bank of CTCF motifs, which may work as a ratchet to form the distinctive bipartite structure of the condensed Xi.
Ticks host a wide range of zoonotic pathogens and are a significant source of diseases that affect humans and livestock. However, little is known about the pathogens associated with bat ticks. We have collected ectoparasites from bat carcasses over a seven year period. Nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) were extracted from 296 ticks removed from bats and the species designation was confirmed in all ticks as Argas (Carios) vespertilionis. A subset of these samples (n = 120) were tested for the presence of zoonotic pathogens by molecular methods. Babesia species, Rickettsia spp., within the spotted fever group (SFG), and Ehrlichia spp. were detected in ticks removed from 26 bats submitted from 14 counties across England. The prevalence of Rickettsia spp. was found to be highest in Pipistrellus pipistrellus from southern England. This study suggests that the tick species that host B. venatorum may include the genus Argas in addition to the genus Ixodes. As A. vespertilionis has been reported to feed on humans, detection of B. venatorum and SFG Rickettsia spp. could present a risk of disease transmission in England. No evidence for the presence of flaviviruses or Issyk-Kul virus (nairovirus) was found in these tick samples.
Alternative cleavage and polyadenylation (ApA) is known to alter untranslated region (3'UTR) length but can also recognize intronic polyadenylation (IpA) signals to generate transcripts that lose part or all of the coding region. We analyzed 46 3'-seq and RNA-seq profiles from normal human tissues, primary immune cells, and multiple myeloma (MM) samples and created an atlas of 4927 high-confidence IpA events represented in these cell types. IpA isoforms are widely expressed in immune cells, differentially used during B-cell development or in different cellular environments, and can generate truncated proteins lacking C-terminal functional domains. This can mimic ectodomain shedding through loss of transmembrane domains or alter the binding specificity of proteins with DNA-binding or protein-protein interaction domains. MM cells display a striking loss of IpA isoforms expressed in plasma cells, associated with shorter progression-free survival and impacting key genes in MM biology and response to lenalidomide.
Reactive carbonyl species, such as methylglyoxal and glyoxal are very toxic in nature and can inactivate various cellular macromolecules such as DNA, RNA, and protein by forming advanced glycation end products. Conventional glyoxalase pathway with two enzymes- glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II, detoxify MG into D-lactate with the help of reduced glutathione. However, DJ-1/PfpI domain(s) containing DJ-1/ Hsp31 proteins do the same in a single step, and thus termed as "glyoxalase III". A comprehensive genome-wide analysis of soybean identified eleven putative glyoxalase III proteins with DJ-1/PfpI domain encoded by seven genes. Most of these proteins are predicted to be mitochondria and chloroplast localized. In spite of similar function, a differential evolution pattern was observed between Hsp31 and DJ-1 proteins. Expression of GmDJ-1A, GmDJ-1B, and GmDJ-1D2 transcripts was found to be constitutive in different tissues and developmental stages. Transcript profiling revealed the strong substrate-specific upregulation of GmDJ-1 genes in response to exogenous methylglyoxal exposure. Out of seven genes, GmDJ-1D1 and GmDJ-1D2 showed maximum upregulation against salinity, dehydration, and oxidative stresses. Moreover, GmDJ-1D2 showed functional glyoxalase III enzyme activity by utilizing MG as a substrate. Overall, this study identifies some novel tissue-specific and abiotic stress-responsive GmDJ-1 genes that could be investigated further.
Embryonic Stem Cells (ESC) possesses two distinct features; self-renewal and the potential to differentiate. Here we show the differentiation potential and growth rate of ESC correlates positively with the expression level of the gene encoding chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 7 (CHD7). When ESCs are maintained in feeder-free conditions and single cell seeding, ESC KhES-1 having 4520 copies or more of CHD7 in 5 ng total RNA show differentiation potential, but this is lost when the CHD7 copy number is reduced in KhES-1 to less than 696 by alternative culture conditions. Introduction of siCHD7 reduced differentiation potential and growth rate of KhES-1. Interestingly, KhES-1 underwent spontaneous differentiation when mCHD7 was introduced and we could not obtain CHD7-overexpressing ESC in culture. These data suggest that CHD7 drives differentiation, and there is a lower limit for CHD7 to initiate differentiation and an upper limit for CHD7 if maintained in undifferentiated state, and such upper limit varies depending on culture condition. As CHD7 drives cell growth, ESC with the highest permissible CHD7 level in the given culture become dominant in a couple of passages. Thus, we can select differentiation resistance-free cell clones by optimizing the culture system using CHD7 as an index.
L-ascorbic acid (Vitamin C) can enhance the meiotic maturation and developmental competence of porcine oocytes, but the underlying molecular mechanism remains obscure. Here we show the role of ascorbic acid in regulating epigenetic status of both nucleic acids and chromatin to promote oocyte maturation and development in pigs. Supplementation of 250 μM L-ascorbic acid 2-phosphate sesquimagnesium salt hydrate (AA2P) during in vitro maturation significantly enhanced the nuclear maturation (as indicated by higher rate of first polar body extrusion and increased Bmp15 mRNA level), reduced level of reactive oxygen species, and promoted developmental potency (higher cleavage and blastocyst rates of parthenotes, and decreased Bax and Caspase3 mRNA levels in blastocysts) of pig oocytes. AA2P treatment caused methylation erasure in mature oocytes on nucleic acids (5-methylcytosine (5 mC) and N 6-methyladenosine (m6A)) and histones (Histone H3 trimethylations at lysines 27, H3K27me3), but establishment of histone H3 trimethylations at lysines 4 (H3K4me3) and 36 (H3K36me3). During the global methylation reprogramming process, levels of TET2 (mRNA and protein) and Dnmt3b (mRNA) were significantly elevated, but simultaneously DNMT3A (mRNA and protein), and also Hif-1α, Hif-2α, Tet3, Mettl14, Kdm5b and Eed (mRNA) were significantly inhibited. Our findings support that ascorbic acid can reprogram the methylation status of not only DNA and histone, but also RNA, to improve pig oocyte maturation and developmental competence.
Deciphering the evolution of cancer cells under therapeutic pressure is a crucial step to understand the mechanisms that lead to treatment resistance. To this end, we analyzed whole-exome sequencing data of eight chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients that developed resistance upon BCL2-inhibition by venetoclax. Here, we report recurrent mutations in BTG1 (2 patients) and homozygous deletions affecting CDKN2A/B (3 patients) that developed during treatment, as well as a mutation in BRAF and a high-level focal amplification of CD274 (PD-L1) that might pinpoint molecular aberrations offering structures for further therapeutic interventions.
Lactococcus lactis is a food-grade lactic acid bacterium that is used in the dairy industry as a cell factory and as a host for recombinant protein expression. The nisin-controlled inducible expression (NICE) system is frequently applied in L. lactis; however new tools for its genetic modification are highly desirable. In this work NICE was adapted for dual protein expression. Plasmid pNZDual, that contains two nisin promoters and multiple cloning sites (MCSs), and pNZPolycist, that contains a single nisin promoter and two MCSs separated by the ribosome binding site, were constructed. Genes for the infrared fluorescent protein and for the human IgG-binding DARPin were cloned in all possible combinations to assess the protein yield. The dual promoter plasmid pNZDual enabled balanced expression of the two model proteins. It was exploited for the development of a single-plasmid inducible CRISPR-Cas9 system (pNZCRISPR) by using a nisin promoter, first to drive Cas9 expression and, secondly, to drive single guide RNA transcription. sgRNAs against htrA and ermR directed Cas9 against genomic or plasmid DNA and caused changes in bacterial growth and survival. Replacing Cas9 by dCas9 enabled CRISPR interference-mediated silencing of the upp gene. The present study introduces a new series of plasmids for advanced genetic modification of lactic acid bacterium L. lactis.
The Acknowledgements section in this Article is incomplete. "We would like to acknowledge the members of Center for Bioinformatics and Systems Biology at Wake Forest School of Medicine, especially Dr. Hua Tan, for valuable discussions and advices. This work was supported by National Institutes of Health [1U01CA166886] (to X. Zhou), and partially supported by NSFC No. 61373105. Funding for open access charge: National Institutes of Health [1U01CA166886]." should read: "We would like to acknowledge the members of Center for Bioinformatics and Systems Biology at Wake Forest School of Medicine, especially Dr. Hua Tan, for valuable discussions and advices. This work was supported by National Institutes of Health [1U01CA166886, 1U01AR069395 and 1R01GM123037] (to X. Zhou), and partially supported by NSFC No.61373105 and No.61672422. Funding for open access charge: National Institutes of Health [1U01CA166886]. The authors acknowledge the Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC) at the University of Texas at Austin (http://www.tacc.utexas.edu < http://www.tacc.utexas.edu/ > ) and the DEMON high performance computing (HPC) cluster at Wake Forest University School of Medicine for providing HPC resources that have contributed to the research results reported within this paper."
The organic compound diethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) represents a high production volume chemical found in cosmetics, personal care products, laundry detergents, and household items. DEHP, along with other phthalates causes endocrine disruption in males. Exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals has been linked to the development of several adverse health outcomes with apical end points including Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD). This study examined the adult male zebrafish (Danio rerio) transcriptome after exposure to environmental levels of DEHP and 17α-ethinylestradiol (EE2) using both DNA microarray and RNA-sequencing technologies. Our results show that exposure to DEHP is associated with differentially expressed (DE) transcripts associated with the disruption of metabolic processes in the liver, including perturbation of five biological pathways: 'FOXA2 and FOXA3 transcription factor networks', 'Metabolic pathways', 'metabolism of amino acids and derivatives', 'metabolism of lipids and lipoproteins', and 'fatty acid, triacylglycerol, and ketone body metabolism'. DE transcripts unique to DEHP exposure, not observed with EE2 (i.e. non-estrogenic effects) exhibited a signature related to the regulation of transcription and translation, and ruffle assembly and organization. Collectively our results indicate that exposure to low DEHP levels modulates the expression of liver genes related to fatty acid metabolism and the development of NAFLD.
In Staphylococcus aureus, an important Gram-positive human pathogen, the SaeRS two-component system is essential for the virulence and a good target for the development of anti-virulence drugs. In this study, we screened 12,200 small molecules for Sae inhibitors and identified two anti-cancer drugs, streptozotocin (STZ) and floxuridine (FU), as lead candidates for anti-virulence drug development against staphylococcal infections. As compared with STZ, FU was more efficient in repressing Sae-regulated promoters and protecting human neutrophils from S. aureus-mediated killing. FU inhibited S. aureus growth effectively whereas STZ did not. Intriguingly, RNA-seq analysis suggests that both compounds inhibit other virulence-regulatory systems such as Agr, ArlRS, and SarA more efficiently than they inhibit the Sae system. Both compounds induced prophages from S. aureus, indicating that they cause DNA damages. Surprisingly, a single administration of the drugs was sufficient to protect mice from staphylococcal intraperitoneal infection. Both compounds showed in vivo efficacy in a murine model of blood infection too. Finally, at the experimental dosage, neither compound showed any noticeable side effects on blood glucose level or blood cell counts. Based on these results, we concluded that STZ and FU are promising candidates for anti-virulence drug development against S. aureus infection.
CRISPR/Cas9 has recently been developed as an efficient genome engineering tool. The rabbit is a suitable animal model for studies of metabolic diseases. In this study, we generated ATP7B site-directed point mutation rabbits to simulate a major mutation type in Asians (p. Arg778Leu) with Wilson disease (WD) by using the CRISPR/Cas9 system combined with single-strand DNA oligonucleotides (ssODNs). The efficiency of the precision point mutation was 52.94% when zygotes were injected 14 hours after HCG treatment and was significantly higher than that of zygotes injected 19 hours after HCG treatment (14.29%). The rabbits carrying the allele with mutant ATP7B died at approximately three months of age. Additionally, the copper content in the livers of rabbits at the onset of WD increased nine-fold, a level similar to the five-fold increase observed in humans with WD. Thus, the efficiency of precision point mutations increases when RNAs are injected into zygotes at earlier stages, and the ATP7B mutant rabbits are a potential model for human WD disease with applications in pathological analysis, clinical treatment and gene therapy research.
Iron is an essential nutrient for cell survival and is crucial for DNA replication, mitochondrial function and erythropoiesis. However, the immunological role of iron in viral infections has not been well defined. Here we found the iron salt ferric ammonium citrate (FAC) inhibited Influenza A virus, HIV virus, Zika virus, and Enterovirus 71 (EV71) infections. Of note, both iron ion and citrate ion were required for the antiviral capability of FAC, as other iron salts and citrates did not exhibit viral inhibition. Mechanistically, FAC inhibited viral infection through inducing viral fusion and blocking endosomal viral release. These were further evidenced by the fact that FAC induced liposome aggregation and intracellular vesicle fusion, which was associated with a unique iron-dependent cell death. Our results demonstrate a novel antiviral function of FAC and suggest a therapeutic potential for iron in the control of viral infections.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a family of short noncoding RNAs that posttranscriptionally regulate gene expression and play an important role in multiple cellular processes. A significant percentage of miRNAs are intragenic, which is often functionally related to their host genes playing either antagonistic or synergistic roles. In this study, we constructed and analyzed the entire network of intergenic interactions induced by intragenic miRNAs. We further focused on the core of this network, which was defined as a union of nontrivial strongly connected components, i.e., sets of nodes (genes) mutually connected via directed paths. Both the entire network and its core possessed statistically significant non-random properties. Specifically, genes forming the core had high expression levels and low expression variance. Furthermore, the network core did not split into separate components corresponding to individual signalling or metabolic pathways, but integrated genes involved in key cellular processes, including DNA replication, transcription, protein homeostasis and cell metabolism. We suggest that the network core, consisting of genes mutually regulated by their intragenic miRNAs, could coordinate adjacent pathways or homeostatic control circuits, serving as a horizontal inter-circuit link. Notably, expression patterns of these genes had an efficient prognostic potential for breast and colorectal cancer patients.
To understand functional consequences of genetic and transcriptional aberrations in prostate cancer, the proteomic changes during disease formation and progression need to be revealed. Here we report high-throughput mass spectrometry on clinical tissue samples of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), untreated primary prostate cancer (PC) and castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Each sample group shows a distinct protein profile. By integrative analysis we show that, especially in CRPC, gene copy number, DNA methylation, and RNA expression levels do not reliably predict proteomic changes. Instead, we uncover previously unrecognized molecular and pathway events, for example, several miRNA target correlations present at protein but not at mRNA level. Notably, we identify two metabolic shifts in the citric acid cycle (TCA cycle) during prostate cancer development and progression. Our proteogenomic analysis uncovers robustness against genomic and transcriptomic aberrations during prostate cancer progression, and significantly extends understanding of prostate cancer disease mechanisms.
Genetically encoded biosensors are regarded as promising screening devices owing to their wide range of detectable ligands and great applicability to high-throughput screening and selection. Here, we reviewed the current progress in design and optimization of biosensors for high-throughput screening of chemicals. First, we summarized genetic parts of biosensors and strategies for their discovery and development. Next, we explained the properties of biosensors that are relevant to high-throughput screening. Finally, we described various methods for tuning biosensors to fulfill requirements of an efficient screening.
5-hydroxymethylation (5-hmC) is an epigenetic modification on DNA that results from the conversion of 5-methylcytosine by Ten-Eleven Translocation (TET) proteins. 5-hmC is widely present in the brain and is subjected to dynamic regulation during development and upon neuronal activity. It was recently shown to be involved in memory processes but currently, little is known about how it is controlled in the brain during memory formation. Here, we show that Tet3 is selectively up-regulated by activity in hippocampal neurons in vitro, and after formation of fear memory in the hippocampus. This is accompanied by a decrease in miR-29b expression that, through complementary sequences, regulates the level of Tet3 by preferential binding to its 3′UTR. We newly reveal that SAM68, a nuclear RNA-binding protein known to regulate splicing, acts upstream of miR-29 by modulating its biogenesis. Together, these findings identify novel players in the adult brain necessary for the regulation of 5-hmC during memory formation.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common malignant tumor with poor prognosis. We previously showed that expression of Delta-like 3 (DLL3), a member of the family of Delta/Serrate/Lag2 ligands for the Notch receptor, is silenced by aberrant DNA methylation and that overexpression of DLL3 in an HCC cell line induces cellular apoptosis. However, how DLL3 expression is regulated during hepatocarcinogenesis is still unclear. Here, we show that silencing of DLL3 during hepatocarcinogenesis is closely related to viral infection, especially hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection (p = 0.005). HepG2.2.15 cells, which are stably transformed with the HBV genome, showed lower DLL3 expression than the parent cell line, HepG2 cells. Treatment with Hepatitis B virus X protein (HBx) small interfering RNA upregulated DLL3 expression in HepG2.2.15 cells, and overexpression of HBx in HepG2 cells downregulated DLL3 expression. Treatment of cells with a histone deacetylase inhibitor induced DLL3 expression in HepG2.2.15 cells. These data suggest that DLL3 expression is silenced during hepatocarcinogenesis in association with HBV infection via an epigenetic mechanism.
African swine fever is a devastating viral disease of domestic and wild pigs against which no vaccine or therapy is available. Therefore, we applied the CRISPR (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats) - Cas9 nuclease system to target the double-stranded DNA genome of African swine fever virus (ASFV). To this end, a permissive wild boar lung (WSL) cell line was modified by stable transfection with a plasmid encoding Cas9 and a guide RNA targeting codons 71 to 78 of the phosphoprotein p30 gene (CP204L) of ASFV. Due to targeted Cas9 cleavage of the virus genome, plaque formation of ASFV was completely abrogated and virus yields were reduced by four orders of magnitude. The specificity of these effects could be demonstrated by using a natural ASFV isolate and escape mutants possessing nucleotide exchanges within the target sequence, which were not inhibited in the Cas9-expressing cell line. Growth of the cell line was not affected by transgene expression which, as well as virus inhibition, proved to be stable over at least 50 passages. Thus, CRISPR-Cas9 mediated targeting of the ASFV p30 gene is a valid strategy to convey resistance against ASF infection, which may also be applied in its natural animal host.
TGF-β 1-3 are unique multi-functional growth factors that are only expressed in mammals, and mainly secreted and stored as a latent complex in the extracellular matrix (ECM). The biological functions of TGF-β in adults can only be delivered after ligand activation, mostly in response to environmental perturbations. Although involved in multiple biological and pathological processes of the human body, the exact roles of TGF-β in maintaining stem cells and tissue homeostasis have not been well-documented until recent advances, which delineate their functions in a given context. Our recent findings, along with data reported by others, have clearly shown that temporal and spatial activation of TGF-β is involved in the recruitment of stem/progenitor cell participation in tissue regeneration/remodeling process, whereas sustained abnormalities in TGF-β ligand activation, regardless of genetic or environmental origin, will inevitably disrupt the normal physiology and lead to pathobiology of major diseases. Modulation of TGF-β signaling with different approaches has proven effective pre-clinically in the treatment of multiple pathologies such as sclerosis/fibrosis, tumor metastasis, osteoarthritis, and immune disorders. Thus, further elucidation of the mechanisms by which TGF-β is activated in different tissues/organs and how targeted cells respond in a context-dependent way can likely be translated with clinical benefits in the management of a broad range of diseases with the involvement of TGF-β.
The anti-hypercholesterolemic effect of berbamine (BBM) isolated from Rhizoma Coptidis (RC) was investigated in hypercholesterolemic zebrafish model induced by high-cholesterol (HC) diet. Zebrafish embryo assay revealed no significant difference in morphology and cell death with the treatment of BBM less than 20 μg/mL. In zebrafish larvae, the fluorescently labeled cholesterol in caudal artery was reduced dose-dependently after BBM treatment. For adult zebrafish, administration of 0.2% BBM exhibited a significant decrease in plasma total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c) levels by 37%, 38% and 28%, respectively, along with a fall in lipid content in liver. Further investigation suggested that the mRNA expression of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR) and microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) in liver were downregulated and the transcription levels of liver gene low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) and cytochrome P450 polypeptide 1a of subfamily A of family 7 (CYP7A1a) were significantly up-regulated with BBM treatment. Histological study showed that BBM can alleviate hepatic steatosis induced by HC diet. These data suggested that BBM has anti-hypercholesterolemic and hepatoprotective effects. The mechanism probably related to the up-regulation of cholesterol transport and bile acid synthesis as well as inhibition of cholesterol synthesis and lipoprotein assembly or secretion.
In human mutant BRAF melanoma cells, the stemness transcription factor FOXD3 is rapidly induced by inhibition of ERK1/2 signaling and mediates adaptive resistance to RAF inhibitors. However, the mechanism underlying ERK signaling control of FOXD3 expression remains unknown. Here we show that SOX10 is both necessary and sufficient for RAF inhibitor-induced expression of FOXD3 in mutant BRAF melanoma cells. SOX10 activates the transcription of FOXD3 by binding to a regulatory element in FOXD3 promoter. Phosphorylation of SOX10 by ERK inhibits its transcription activity toward multiple target genes by interfering with the sumoylation of SOX10 at K55, which is essential for its transcription activity. Finally, depletion of SOX10 sensitizes mutant BRAF melanoma cells to RAF inhibitors in vitro and in vivo. Thus, our work discovers a novel phosphorylation-dependent regulatory mechanism of SOX10 transcription activity and completes an ERK1/2/SOX10/FOXD3/ERBB3 axis that mediates adaptive resistance to RAF inhibitors in mutant BRAF melanoma cells.
Transition from pluripotency to differentiation is a pivotal yet poorly understood developmental step. Here, we show that the tumour suppressor RASSF1A is a key player driving the early specification of cell fate. RASSF1A acts as a natural barrier to stem cell self-renewal and iPS cell generation, by switching YAP from an integral component in the β-catenin-TCF pluripotency network to a key factor that promotes differentiation. We demonstrate that epigenetic regulation of the Rassf1A promoter maintains stemness by allowing a quaternary association of YAP-TEAD and β-catenin-TCF3 complexes on the Oct4 distal enhancer. However, during differentiation, promoter demethylation allows GATA1-mediated RASSF1A expression which prevents YAP from contributing to the TEAD/β-catenin-TCF3 complex. Simultaneously, we find that RASSF1A promotes a YAP-p73 transcriptional programme that enables differentiation. Together, our findings demonstrate that RASSF1A mediates transcription factor selection of YAP in stem cells, thereby acting as a functional "switch" between pluripotency and initiation of differentiation.
Skeletal health relies on architectural integrity and sufficient bone mass, which are maintained through a tightly regulated equilibrium of bone resorption by osteoclasts and bone formation by osteoblasts. Genetic studies have linked the gene coding for low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein1 (Lrp1) to bone traits but whether these associations are based on a causal molecular relationship is unknown. Here, we show that Lrp1 in osteoblasts is a novel regulator of osteoclast activity and bone mass. Mice lacking Lrp1 specifically in the osteoblast lineage displayed normal osteoblast function but severe osteoporosis due to highly increased osteoclast numbers and bone resorption. Osteoblast Lrp1 limited receptor activator of NF-κB ligand (RANKL) expression in vivo and in vitro through attenuation of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF-BB) signaling. In co-culture, Lrp1-deficient osteoblasts stimulated osteoclastogenesis in a PDGFRβ-dependent manner and in vivo treatment with the PDGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib mesylate limited RANKL production and led to complete remission of the osteoporotic phenotype. These results identify osteoblast Lrp1 as a key regulator of osteoblast-to-osteoclast communication and bone mass through a PDGF-RANKL signaling axis in osteoblasts and open perspectives to further explore the potential of PDGF signaling inhibitors in counteracting bone loss as well as to evaluate the importance of functional LRP1 gene variants in the control of bone mass in humans.
Background: Nowadays, viral nanoparticles (VNPs) have attracted a lot of attention, although some are concerned that VNPs may reflect on viral entry of virus into animal or plant cells. In the present study, it aimed to investigate the pathogenesis of VNPs formed by Herceptin (Trastuzumab) and the viral nanoparticles derived from the filamentous plant virus Potato Virus X (PVX-HER) in host plant. Methods: Flow cytometry was used to evaluate the toxicity of plant virus alone (free-PVX) in two HER2+ cancer cells and normal cells. Furthermore, the pathogenesis of PVX-HER was tested by ELISA, Western blot, and RT-PCR. Results: The results indicated that PVX-HER failed to cause disease in the host plant. Furthermore, cancer and normal cell lines could evade the apoptosis and necrosis by the free viral nanoparticles (free-PVX). This study suggests that the problem of toxicity considered as a challenging factor in most nanoparticles was not observed in this plant virus nanoparticle. Conclusions: Finally, the safety of the environment was confirmed. The present research is the first study which focused on VNPs based on safety perspective that can be used for drug delivery carriers.
Phormicins belong to defensin family, which are important antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) in insects. These AMPs are inducible upon challenging by immune triggers. In the present study, we identified the cDNA of a phormicin gene (BdPho) in the oriental fruit fly, Bactrocera dorsalis (Hendel), a ruinous agricultural pest causing great economic losses to fruits and vegetables. The cDNA of BdPho contains a 282 bp open reading frame encoding 93 amino acid residues, and the predicted molecular weight and isoelectric point of BdPho peptide were 9.83 kDa and 7.54, respectively. Quantitative real-time PCR analyses showed that the transcription level of BdPho was the highest in adult during different developmental stages and was the highest in abdomen among adult tagmata. Moreover, BdPho was highly expressed in fat body among different tissues, both in female and male adult. The mRNA level of BdPho was significantly up-regulated to 7.46- and 14.53-fold at 3 and 6 h after the insects were challenged with peptidoglycans from Escherichia coli (PGN-EB), respectively, suggesting its antimicrobial activity against Gram-negative microorganisms. Furthermore, the expression level of BdPho was significantly up-regulated to 3.83-fold after mating, suggesting that female adults might enhance their immunity by up-regulating the expression level of BdPho during mating. These results firstly describe the basic properties of the phormicin gene from B. dorsalis, and lay the foundation for investigating functional properties of AMPs and exploring the molecular mechanisms in the immune system.
Hyperproliferative keratinocytes induced by trauma, hyperkeratosis and/or inflammation display molecular signatures similar to those of palmoplantar epidermis. Inherited gain-of-function mutations in RHBDF2 (encoding iRHOM2) are associated with a hyperproliferative palmoplantar keratoderma and squamous oesophageal cancer syndrome (termed TOC). In contrast, genetic ablation of rhbdf2 in mice leads to a thinning of the mammalian footpad, and reduces keratinocyte hyperproliferation and migration. Here, we report that iRHOM2 is a novel target gene of p63 and that both p63 and iRHOM2 differentially regulate cellular stress-associated signalling pathways in normal and hyperproliferative keratinocytes. We demonstrate that p63-iRHOM2 regulates cell survival and response to oxidative stress via modulation of SURVIVIN and Cytoglobin, respectively. Furthermore, the antioxidant compound Sulforaphane downregulates p63-iRHOM2 expression, leading to reduced proliferation, inflammation, survival and ROS production. These findings elucidate a novel p63-associated pathway that identifies iRHOM2 modulation as a potential therapeutic target to treat hyperproliferative skin disease and neoplasia.
Most studies have employed aeration–biofiltration process for the simultaneous removal of iron, manganese and ammonia in groundwater. However, what’s inside the “black box”, i.e., the potential contribution of functional microorganisms behavior and interactions have seldom been investigated. Moreover, little attention has been paid to the correlations between environmental variables and functional microorganisms. In this study, the performance of industrial-scale biofilters for the contaminated groundwater treatment was studied. The effluent were all far below the permitted concentration level in the current drinking water standard. Pyrosequencing illustrated that shifts in microbial community structure were observed in the microbial samples from different depths of filter. Microbial networks showed that the microbial community structure in the middle- and deep-layer samples was similar, in which a wide range of manganese-oxidizing bacteria was identified. By contrast, canonical correlation analysis showed that the bacteria capable of ammonia-oxidizing and nitrification was enriched in the upper-layer, i.e., Propionibacterium, Nitrosomonas, Nitrosomonas and Candidatus Nitrotoga. The stable biofilm on the biofilter media, created by certain microorganisms from the groundwater microflora, played a crucial role in the simultaneous removal of the three pollutants.
There is growing evidence that lithium used in the treatment of bipolar disorder (BD) affects molecular targets that are involved in neuronal growth, survival, and maturation, but it remains unclear if neuronal alterations in any of these molecules predict specific symptom changes in BD patients undergoing lithium monotherapy. The goals of this study were to (a) determine which molecular changes in the olfactory neurons of symptomatic patients receiving lithium are associated with antimanic or antidepressant response, and (b) uncover novel intraneuronal regulatory mechanisms of lithium therapy. Twenty-two treatment-naïve non-smoking patients, with symptomatic BD underwent nasal biopsies for collection of olfactory tissues, prior to their treatment and following a 6-week course of lithium monotherapy. Sixteen healthy controls were also biopsied. Combining laser capture microdissection with real-time polymerase chain reaction, we investigated baseline and treatment-associated transcriptional changes in candidate molecular targets of lithium action in the olfactory neuroepithelium. Baseline mRNA levels of glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) and collapsin response mediator protein 1 (CRMP1) genes were significantly associated with BD status and with severity of mood symptoms. Among BD subjects, treatment-associated downregulation of CRMP1 expression was most predictive of decreases in both manic and depressive symptoms. This study provides a novel insight into the relevance of CRMP1, a key molecule in semaphorin-3A signaling during neurodevelopment, in the molecular mechanism of action of lithium, and in the pathophysiology of BD. It supports the use of human-derived olfactory neuronal tissues in the evaluation of treatment response of psychiatric disorders.
Bacteria play vital roles in soil biological fertility; however, it remains poorly understood about their response to long-term fertilization in Chinese Mollisols, especially when organic manure is substituted for inorganic nitrogen (N) fertilizer. To broaden our knowledge, high-throughput pyrosequencing and quantitative PCR were used to explore the impacts of inorganic fertilizer and manure on bacterial community composition in a 35-year field experiment of Chinese Mollisols. Soils were collected from four treatments: no fertilizer (CK), inorganic phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) fertilizer (PK), inorganic P, K, and N fertilizer (NPK), and inorganic P and K fertilizer plus manure (MPK). All fertilization differently changed soil properties. Compared with CK, the PK and NPK treatments acidified soil by significantly decreasing soil pH from 6.48 to 5.53 and 6.16, respectively, while MPK application showed no significant differences of soil pH, indicating alleviation of soil acidification. Moreover, all fertilization significantly increased soil organic matter (OM) and soybean yields, with the highest observed under MPK regime. In addition, the community composition at each taxonomic level varied considerably among the fertilization strategies. Bacterial taxa, associated with plant growth promotion, OM accumulation, disease suppression, and increased soil enzyme activity, were overrepresented in the MPK regime, while they were present at low abundant levels under NPK treatment, i.e. phyla Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes, class Alphaproteobacteria, and genera Variovorax, Chthoniobacter, Massilia, Lysobacter, Catelliglobosispora and Steroidobacter. The application of MPK shifted soil bacterial community composition towards a better status, and such shifts were primarily derived from changes in soil pH and OM.
The production of recombinant therapeutic proteins, however, remains expensive due to the manufacturing complexity of mammalian expression systems and the regulatory burden associated with administrating these medicines to patients in a safe and efficacious manner. In recent years, academic and industrial groups have begun to develop a greater understanding of the biology of host cell lines, such as Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells and utilise that information for process development and cell line engineering. In this review, we focus on ribosome footprint profiling (RiboSeq), an exciting next generation sequencing (NGS) method that provides genome-wide information on translation, and discuss how its application can transform our understanding of therapeutic protein production.
Many of these first-in-class therapies provide novel treatment modalities and address previously untreatable conditions or undruggable targets. In particular, novel treatments for rare genetic disorders and qualitatively different oncology therapeutics have been approved in the last two years. This review discusses recent advances in peptide, nucleic acid, carbohydrate, vaccine, and cell-based therapies as well as the manufacturing and commercialization challenges associated with these novel therapeutics.
Background: A common mood disorder, depression has long been considered a leading cause of disability worldwide. Chronic stress is involved in the development of various psychiatric diseases including major depressive disorder. Stress can induce depressive-like symptoms and initiate neurodegenerative processes in the brain. The neurodegenerative theory of depression holds impaired axonal transport as a negative factor in neural survival. Axonal transport is a critical mechanism for normal neuronal function, playing crucial roles in axon growth, neurotransmitter secretion, normal mitochondrial function and neural survival. Methods and materials: To investigate the effects of stress-induced depression, in the present study, we evaluated behavior by forced swimming test (FST), corticosterone plasma level by ELISA assay, hippocampal mRNA expression of three genes (NGF, kinesin and dynein) via real-time PCR and hippocamp count by Nissl staining in male Wistar rats. Results: Our data demonstrated a significant decrease in the expression of NGF, kinesin and dynein genes in CUMS groups compared to the control group (non-stressed) (p < 0.05). CUMS also caused an elevation in immobility time and corticosterone plasma level in the stressed group compared to the controls (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively). Conclusion: The results suggested that the possibility of stress-induced depressive behavior associated with hippocampal neurodegeneration process is correlated with a low expression of kinesin and dynein, the two most important proteins in axonal transport.
To satisfy the urgent demand for promoter engineering that can accurately regulate the metabolic circuits and expression of specific genes in the Rhodococcus microbial platform, a promoter-ribosome binding site (RBS) coupled mini-pool with fine-tuning of different activity levels was successfully established. Transcriptome analyses of R. ruber TH revealed several representative promoters with different activity levels, e.g., Pami, Pcs, Pnh, P50sl36, PcbiM, PgroE and Pniami. β-Galactosidase (LacZ) reporter measurement demonstrated that different gene expression levels could be obtained with these natural promoters combined with an optimal RBS of ami. Further use of these promoters to overexpress the nitrile hydratase (NHase) gene with RBSami in R. ruber THdAdN produced different expression levels consistent with the transcription analyses. The −35 and −10 core elements of different promoters were further analyzed, and the conserved sequences were revealed to be TTGNNN and (T/C)GNNA(A/C)AAT. By mutating the core elements of the strong promoters, Pnh and Pami, into the above consensus sequence, two even stronger promoters, PnhM and PamiM, were obtained with 2.2-fold and 7.7-fold improvements in transcription, respectively. Integrating several strategies, including transcriptome promoter screening, −35 and −10 core element identification, core element point-mutation, RBS optimization and diverse reporter verification, a fine-tuning promoter-RBS combination mini-pool with different activity levels in Rhodococcus strains was successfully established. This development is significant for broad applications of the Rhodococcus genus as a microbial platform.
This determination is typically performed using a combination of spectrophotometry and polymerase chain reaction, where multi-step and complex sample pretreatment is generally required. To simplify the analysis, we present a nanosensor for the multiplex determination of DNA and RNA. This nanosensor consists of a magnetic Fe3O4@Ag nanocomposite functionalized by a low molecular selector from the family of alkylating agents, chlorambucil. The sensor allows selective isolation of nucleic acids based on the magnetic properties of integrated Fe3O4 nanoparticles and consecutive determination of their content via magnetically assisted surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (MA-SERS). Limits of detection of 3.0 ng L−1 and 3.8 ng L−1 are achieved for DNA and RNA, respectively. The enhanced selectivity of the developed sensor, owing to the presence of the alkylating agent, allows multiplexed analysis of DNA and RNA with low relative errors (<10%) of determination.
Herein, an enzyme-free and label-free fluorescence microRNA biosensor based on cascade amplification of DNAzyme-powered three-dimensional DNA walker and hybridization chain reaction was developed. Firstly, the microRNA hybridized with the locking DNA and caused the locking DNA released from the blocked walking probes (BWPs) through toehold-mediated strand displacement reaction. The DNAzyme was exposed and then the walking probes automatically moved along the three-dimensional tracks and catalyzed the cleavage of hairpin DNA substrates (HDSs), releasing abundant triggers. Finally, the triggers initiated the hybridization chain reaction to generate amplified fluorescence signals. Compared with the three-dimensional DNA walker powered by protein enzyme, this DNAzyme-powered three-dimensional DNA walker was simpler and more stable. The high amplification efficiency of cascade amplification guaranteed a satisfactory sensitivity with a detection limit of 7.9 fM. The toehold-mediated strand displacement reaction guaranteed an admirable specificity. The microRNA analysis in real biological sample further indicated that this biosensor offered an alternative strategy for the quantification of microRNA.
Leishmaniasis remains one of the most neglected diseases globally and affects primarily the poor in developing countries. Due to the absence of safe and effective drug, the prevention of infection of this disease is very important as it requires an effective vaccine is not yet available. Leishmania eukaryotic initiation factor (LeIF) protein acts an inhibitor of the Leishmania major growth in murine macrophages and reduces interleukin-4 in lymph nodes. We aimed to detect its presence in Leishmania tropica genome and clone the encoding gene of LeIF antigen of Leishmania tropica into eukaryotic expression plasmid pCI. We used a Syrian strain; LCEB-Syrian Strain 01 of Leishmania tropica promastigotes. Specific primers were designed to amplify the gene by Polymerase Chain Reaction “PCR”. LeIF gene was amplified from both DNA and cDNA after optimization the conditions and then sequenced. LeIF gene was cloned into pCI plasmid. We transformed E. coli Top 10 bacteria by the recombinant plasmid and the cloning was proved by colony PCR and restriction digestion. As a result, LeIF is a part of both DNA genome and RNA of Leishmania tropica LCEB-Syrian Strain 01, and cloned LeIF is a candidate for future studies as a DNA vaccine against leishmaniasis.
Here we developed an integrated cell absorption process and quantitative (reverse transcription) polymerase chain reaction (ICAP-q(RT)PCR) assay to detect infectious viruses, which based on the detection of the viral nucleic acid (RNA or DNA) in the early stage of viral attachment and entry towards cells. The results showed that the poliovirus or adenovirus whose concentration was as low as 0.2 TCID50/mL could be detected by ICAP-q(RT)PCR after 4 h incubation. The ICAP-q(RT)PCR exhibited much higher sensitivity than the plaque assay. In parallel, it took shorter time to detect the viruses towards field samples compared with the integrated cell culture (ICC)-qPCR, but could still get the consistent detecting results with ICC-qPCR. This method is verified by detecting four different kinds of viruses including poliovirus, adenovirus, rotavirus, and astrovirus, which existed in the actual water samples. Among all the 24 Jinhe river samples, 50% (12/24) of river water samples were positive for poliovirus when detected by ICAP-q(RT)PCR, which was in accordance with the results detected by ICC-qPCR. However, 21% (5/24) and 68% (18/24) of the samples were detected to be positive for poliovirus by the plaque counting and the direct qPCR method, respectively. Compared with ICAP-q(PT)PCR and ICC-qPCR, the detecting results of qPCR or plaque assay displayed a marked expansion or decline, respectively, which lead to the evident deviations in the accuracy. The results demonstrated that our developed ICAP-q(RT)PCR method could dramatically reduce the test duration and quite improve the sensitivity towards infectious viruses. Therefore, the ICAP-q(RT)PCR method could be an effective and quantitative tool for detecting infectious viruses in water environments.
This study aimed to investigate the role of rs145204276 in the development of osteosarcoma (OS). Methods: 132 OS patients and 1270 healthy controls were recruited for the genotyping analysis of rs145204276. Promoter methylation level of GAS5 was determined for all patients. The tumor tissues and the adjacent normal tissue were collected from 42 patients during surgery and the relative expression of GAS5 was then quantified by Real-time PCR. The Chi-square test was used to determine the difference of genotype and allele frequency between the patients and the controls. The gene expression and the percentage of methylation alleles were compared among different genotypes of rs145204276 with One-way ANOVA test. Results: Compared with the controls, patients were found to have significantly lower rate of genotype del/del (7.6% vs. 8.7%, p = 0.024). The frequency of allele del was significantly lower in the patients than in the controls (23.5% vs. 30.1%, p = 0.021). Compared with than patients with genotype ins/ins, those with genotype del/del had remarkably higher expression of GAS5 (0.0033 ± 0.0019 vs. 0.0018 ± 0.0006, p < 0.001). Patients with genotype del/del were found to have obviously hypermethylation at the 7th CpG site as compared with those with genotype ins/ins (38.7% ± 21.1% vs. 20.5% ± 8.2%, p < 0.001). Conclusions: The genetic variant rs145204276 is functionally associated with the susceptibility of OS, which can function as a protective factor in the incidence of OS possibly through the regulation of GAS5.
In this study both biogas plants treating manure and those treating sludge from waste water treatment plants were considered. The identification of 132 Metagenome-Assembled Genomes (MAGs) and analysis of their abundance profile in different samples allowed the identification of the most abundant core members of the anaerobic digestion microbiome. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to determine the influence of biotic and environmental factors on MAGs abundance and to investigate the methanogenic performance of the biogas plants. Prediction of the functional properties of MAGs was obtained analyzing their KEGG pathways and their carbohydrate active domains. Network analysis allowed investigation of species-species associations and shed light on syntrophic interactions between members belonging to the anaerobic digestion dark matter (phylum Fermentibacteria). By stratifying and comparing different levels of information, it was predicted that some MAGs have a crucial role in the manure-supplemented thermophilic biogas plants and it was highlighted the importance of the glycine cleavage system in complementing the “truncated” Wood-Ljungdahl pathway.
A novel Faraday-cage electrochemiluminescence (ECL) biosensor for the sensitive detection of miRNA-141 was constructed. The capture unit was prepared by immobilizing the capture DNA (cDNA) on the functionalized magnetic nanospheres nanoFe3O4@SiO2@Au, while the signal unit was ruthenium-based metal organic framework Ru-MOF labeled by signal DNA (sDNA). The recognition scaffold was as follows: the capture unit was immobilized onto the magnetic electrode surface; the target miRNA-141 was caught; the signal unit was further hybridized; the Faraday-cage biosensor structure was formed finally. In this case, the signal unit became part of the electrode surface, the outer Helmholtz plane (OHP) of the proposed electrode was extended, all electrochemiluminophores in the signal unit could take part in the electrode reaction, and thus then the detection sensitivity was greatly improved. Taking advantage of the proposed Faraday-cage cascade, the ECL intensity was found to increase with the logarithm of miRNA-141 concentration. The linear range was wide from 1 fM to 10 pM with a limit of detection 0.3 fM. The selectivity, stability, reproducibility, precision and application of this biosensor were validated. This proposed Faraday-cage ECL biosensor has a potential prospect for clinical miRNA detection.
We aimed to test whether five novel candidate miRNAs have different expressions in patients with obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) and acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Methods: In this study, total 135 patients with angina or acute myocardial infarction who underwent coronary angiography were recruited and divided into 3 groups: 45 patients with normal coronary arteries, 45 patients with obstructive CAD and 45 patients with acute STEMI. Serum which was obtained from blood samples were drawn before coronary angiography. After RNA isolation and cDNA synthesis, expressions of miRNAs were detected by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Statistical analysis of qRT-PCR expression results was carried out by using the 2−ΔCt formula. Results: Expression differences were statistically significant for the four studied candidate miRNAs (hsa-miR-128-3p, hsa-miR-196a-5p, hsa-miR-373-3p and hsa-miR-375) among the groups. The receiver operating characteristic curves indicated that three studied candidate miRNAs (miR-196a-5p, miR-373-3p and miR-375) had high potential to provide sensitive and specific diagnostic value for Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS). The calculated Area under curve (AUC) levels showed that miR-196a-5p (AUC: 0.64; 95% CI: 0.521–0.759; p = 0.032) for obstructive CAD and STEMI groups, miR-373-3p (AUC: 708; 95% CI: 0.605–0.812; p < 0.001) for STEMI group and miR-375 (AUC: 0.722; 95% CI: 0.635–0.808; p < 0.001) for obstructive CAD and STEMI groups have diagnostic values. Conclusion: We demonstrated that miR-196a-5p, miR-373-3p and miR-375 are expressed differently in our patients and that these miRNAs may become a promising biomarker for these diseases since they have diagnostic value for CAD and ACS.
These molecules belong to a unique category of endogenous, small non-coding RNAs which can have an effect on regulating gene expression by degrading mRNAs or suppressing translation. They play an important role as regulators of tumor suppressors and oncogenes in pathological processes. Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNP) which is located in the miRNAcoding genes may contribute to the process of the development of various cancers, including breast cancer. This process occurs by altering the expression of mature miRNA. Former studies have observed the association of miRNA SNPs with susceptibility to breast cancer. Objective: Our study evaluated the effect of miR196-a2 polymorphism (rs11614913) on patients suffering from breast cancer in south of Iran. Methods and results: In this research, the hsa-miR-196a2 rs11614913 SNP was examined in 200 Iranian women including 100 patients suffering from breast cancer and 100 healthy women. The SNP was determined by RFLP-PCR. The X2 or Fisher's exact test was used to compare the control and the experimental groups. Statistical analysis of SNPs frequencies showed no significant difference among the patients and the control group regarding the distribution of genotype (P = 0.831). Conclusions: This study's results indicated that the TT polymorphic genotype in hsa-miR-196a2 rs11614913 SNP was not related to breast cancer risk among Southern Iranian patients.
As a source of edible oil and protein, soybean is a major globally important economic crop; Improving its production has been an important objective of soybean breeding. Acid rain has been shown to influence soybean growth and productivity, with consequent adverse impacts on its production for use by human populations. In this study, RNA sequencing technology was utilized to examine changes in gene expression when soybean was exposed to simulated acid rain (SAR). We sampled soybean leaves at five time intervals (0, 6, 30, 54, 78, and 102 h), and built the cDNA library. In total, 54,175 expression genes were found, including 2016 genes with differential expression. A total of 416 genes were considered, as they were closely related to the response to SAR. Genes related to the regulation of sulfur and nitrogen metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, photosynthesis, and reactive oxygen species were among those differentially expressed in response to SAR. In this study, we examined the response mechanisms of soybean under SAR exposure. Our findings will improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms employed by soybean in responding to abiotic stress, and therefore provides important information in developing soybean breeding to improve tolerance to these stresses.
Organophosphate esters (OPEs) draw growing concern about characterizing the potential risk on environmental health due to its wide usage and distribution. Two typical types of organophosphate esters (OPEs): tris (2-chloroethyl) phosphate (TCEP) and tricresyl phosphate (TCP) were selected to evaluate toxicity of OPEs to the soil organism like earthworm (Eisenia fetida). Histopathological examination (H&E), oxidative stress, DNA damage and RT-qPCR was used to identify the effects and potential mechanism of their toxicity. Hameatoxylin and eosin (H&E) demonstrated that intestinal cells suffered serious damage, and the observed up-regulation of chitinase and cathepsin L in mRNA levels confirmed it. Both TCEP and TCP significantly increased the DNA damage when the concentrations exceeded 1 mg/kg (p < 0.01), and a dose-response relationship was observed. In addition, TCEP and TCP also changed the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and expression of genes associated with neurotoxic effects in earthworms even under exposure to low OPEs concentration (0.1 mg/kg). Moreover, genes associated with nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) and carrier protein further demonstrated that highest concentration of TCEP (10 mg/kg) may have an overloading impact on the cholinergic system of E. fetida. Integrated Biological Response index (IBRv2) showed that TCEP exerted stronger toxicity than TCP under the same concentrations. We deduced that the observed intestinal damage, oxidative stress and neurotoxic effect might be the primary mechanisms of TCEP and TCP toxicity. This study provides insight into the toxicological effects of OPEs on earthworm model, and may be useful for risk assessment of OPEs on soil ecosystems.
This study strategically fabricates a nucleic acid functionalized gold nanoparticle and graphene oxide composite probe (AuNP/GO probe) to achieve both the recognition and in situ monitoring of cytoplasmic target precursor microRNAs (pre-miRNAs) and mature microRNAs (miRNAs) in living cells. The pre-miRNA-21 detection with AuNP probes has a good linear range of 0–300 nM and a limit of detection (LOD) of 4.5 nM, whereas the GO probe has a linear relationship with mature miRNA-21 from 0.1 to 10 nM with a LOD of 1.74 nM. This assay was utilized to directly visualize the relative expression levels of pre- and mature forms of miRNA-21 and let-7a. The results suggested that the expression levels of precursor miRNAs remain constant in cancer cells and normal cells. However, the expression levels of mature miRNAs vary widely, demonstrating the “up-regulation” of miRNA-21 and “down-regulation” of let-7a in cancer cells in contrast to that in normal cells. The practicality of this strategy was verified by in situ monitoring changes in cytoplasmic pre-miRNA-21 and mature miRNA-21 in response to small-molecule inhibitors of miRNA-21.
Specific nucleic acids amplification at a constant and mild temperature is important for imaging assay of endogenous microRNAs (miRNAs) in living cells. Duplex-specific nuclease (DSN) is attractive in one-step isothermal assay of miRNA; however, its intrinsic limitations of low amplification specificity and high reaction temperature greatly restrict the application scope. Herein, we present a short-probe-based DSN signal amplification (spDSNSA) strategy enabling analysis of miRNAs at body temperature with significantly high specificity. From systematic investigation of amplification reaction on different types of DNA probes, we revealed that the annealing rate between probe and target miRNA greatly affects the dynamics of amplification process. By simply shortening the length of DNA probe, the spDSNSA remarkably improved specificity without loss of amplification efficiency at 37 °C. As a proof-of-concept, let-7a was sensitively detected by spDSNSA with a limit of detection down to 30 p.M., and a specificity 102 ‒ 104 folds higher than those of traditional DSNSA methods. The analysis of the let-7a in the lysates of A549 human lung cancer cells and BEAS-2B human lung normal bronchial epithelial cells exhibited well agreement with rt-qPCR method. Furthermore, the endogenous let-7a in A549 and BEAS-2B living cells was clearly imaged without damaging the original morphology of cells. The method provide a facile idea for extension of DNS related signal amplification strategies in the application in living cells and POCTs, and would pose a great impact on the development of simple and rapid molecular diagnostic applications for short oligonucleotides.
Surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) is a promising analytical tool in nanoscale detection because of its high sensitivity and selectivity. This review focuses on recent advances in SERS-based detection of DNA and RNA. First, nanostructure-based SERS-active substrates are introduced. Using label-free and labeled SERS, target biomolecules such DNA, RNA and microRNA have been successfully detected. Finally, applications in pathogen diagnosis are discussed. The prospects and challenges of SERS-based bioanalysis are highlighted.
Because of the importance of nucleosomes, the factors that determine their positioning within genomes should be investigated. High-resolution nucleosome-positioning maps are now available for organisms including Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans, enabling the identification of nucleosome positioning by application of computational tools. Here, we describe a novel predictor called NucPosPred, which was specifically designed for large-scale identification of nucleosome positioning in C. elegans and D. melanogaster genomes. NucPosPred was separately optimized for each species for four types of DNA sequence feature extraction, with consideration of two classification algorithms (gradient-boosting decision tree and support vector machine). The overall accuracy obtained with NucPosPred was 92.29% for C. elegans and 88.26% for D. melanogaster, outperforming previous methods and demonstrating the potential for species-specific prediction of nucleosome positioning. For the convenience of most experimental scientists, a web-server for the predictor NucPosPred is available at http://121.42.167.206/NucPosPred/index.jsp.
1758) originating from Ionian and Aegean Sea aquaculture farms and stored at 0 (ice), 4 and 8 °C was determined by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing method using the Illumina's MiSeq platform. The composition of Aerobic Plate Counts (APC) was also monitored by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The rejection time point of sea bream from either area, as determined by sensory evaluation, was about 14, 6 and 3 days at 0, 4 and 8 °C, respectively. APC was approximately 4.5 log cfu/g at day 0 and ranged from 7.5 to 8.5 log cfu/g at sensory rejection. Culture-depended analysis showed that Pseudomonas and Shewanella were the most abundant microorganisms grown on plates for both seas. Moreover, culture-independent analysis of DNA extracted directly from fish flesh showed that sea bream originating from different geographical areas exhibited different bacterial diversity. Pseudomonas and Psychrobacter were the dominant microorganisms of chill-stored fish from Ionian (apart from 8 °C, where Carnobacterium dominated) and Aegean Sea, respectively. In addition, small changes of storage temperature greatly affected bacterial microbiota of stored fish. Various bacterial species, not detected by conventional microbiological methods, were also revealed through 16S amplicon sequencing. In conclusion, the use of NGS approach is a promising methodology for assessing bacterial diversity of sea bream originating from different geographical areas and stored at various temperatures.
The present study promotes the valorization of Fabriano-like fermented sausages, which are central-Italy salami with an origin that dates to the early 17th century, for the possible future selection of autochthonous starter cultures to be used with respect to local traditions. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this study represents the first attempt to define the microbial dynamics in Fabriano-like fermented sausage and the effect of nitrates/nitrites and starter cultures on its natural bacterial biota. Culture and RNA-based techniques (RT-PCR-DGGE and Illumina sequencing) were used to assess the microbial ecology of model Fabriano-like fermented sausages together with the impact of starter cultures and different nitrate and nitrite concentrations. The meat batter was used to produce two batches of fermented sausages that were prepared as follows: i) without commercial starters or ii) with the use of starter cultures composed of Pediococcus pentosaceus and Staphylococcus xylosus. Each batch was further divided into three different batches with the addition of 0/0 mg kg−1 nitrate/nitrite, 75/60 mg kg−1 nitrate/nitrite and 150/125 mg kg−1 nitrate/nitrite to the first, second and third batch, respectively. The samples, which were produced in triplicate, were analyzed on the day of production and after 7, 21, and 42 days of ripening. Enterobacteriaceae counts were always higher in model Fabriano-like sausages produced without the use of starter cultures at all of the sampling times irrespective of the tested nitrate/nitrite concentrations. Lactobacilli counts were positively influenced by the starters, although this influence was not evident over time; moreover, the effect of nitrates and nitrites on the counts of lactobacilli differed over time. As a general trend, coagulase-negative cocci counts were apparently not influenced by the tested nitrate/nitrite concentrations. Regarding the effect of nitrates/nitrites on the microbial diversity revealed by RT-PCR-DGGE, the higher the concentration, the lower the presence of some genera/species such as Pseudomonas spp., Serratia liquefaciens and Staphylococcus spp. However, Illumina sequencing detected Pseudomonas spp. as a minority species after 7, 21 and 42 days of ripening irrespective of the nitrate/nitrite concentration. The presence of Staphylococcus species was highlighted by both RT-PCR-DGGE and Illumina sequencing at all of the stages of ripening, although its presence was massively detected in fermented sausages produced without the use of nitrates/nitrites at the end of ripening. Overall, the data collected clearly highlighted the dominance of Lactobacillus sakei in all of the fermented sausages during ripening (from day 7 to day 42) and irrespective of the nitrate/nitrite concentration and added starter cultures. Moreover, Pediococcus spp. was principally detected in model Fabriano-like fermented sausage with added starter cultures irrespective of the nitrate/nitrite concentration.
Such changes are now possible through the combination of DNA-modifying enzymes with targeting modules, including dCas9, that can localize the enzymes to specific sites. In this review, we take a DNA modifying enzyme-centric view of recent advances. We highlight the variety of natural DNA-modifying enzymes — including DNA methyltransferases, oxygenases, deaminases, and glycosylases — that can be used for targeted editing and discuss how insights into the structure and function of these enzymes has further expanded editing potential by introducing enzyme variants with altered activities or by improving spatiotemporal control of modifications.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Post-transcriptional gene regulation is a vital process to regulate expression of the key genes in the eukaryotic cell. Such processes are essential for pathogens which reside inside the host cell. One such pathogen is Leishmania major, which causes cutaneous leishmaniasis. The parasite lives inside the macrophages of mammalian host (mostly human). Inside the macrophage, Leishmania genes show complex host-pathogen interaction regulating a plethora of gene expression. Till date, most of the studies have shown this kind of regulation with respect to the host macrophages. Here, based on an extensive in silico analysis, we have hypothesized a novel Theophylline binding riboswitch mediated post-transcriptional regulation of a gene i.e. RNA Polymerase III subunit1 (Lmjf_09_1060), an essential gene for the parasite's survival both in its promastigote as well as in its amastigote form. Later, we have conceptualized the working of the identified putative Theophylline binding riboswitch cassette in in vitro using E. coli based reporter assay, wherein, a reporter gene (eGFP) is used instead of RNA Polymerase III subunit1 gene and apparently have shown the downregulation of the reporter gene (eGFP) expression under the influence of in silico identified Theophylline binding riboswitch.
Increase of DNA damage response is one of major mechanisms contributing to platinum-resistance. However, how DNA damage response is regulated in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer cells remains unclear. Using quantitative high throughput combinational screen (qHTCS) and RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), we show that dual oxidase maturation factor 1 (DUOXA1) is overexpressed in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer cells, resulting in over production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Elevated ROS level sustains the activation of ATR-Chk1 pathway, leading to resistance to cisplatin in ovarian cancer cells. Moreover, using qHTCS we identified two Chk1 inhibitors (PF-477736 and AZD7762) that re-sensitize resistant cells to cisplatin. Blocking this novel pathway by inhibiting ROS, DUOXA1, ATR or Chk1 effectively overcomes cisplatin resistance in vitro and in vivo. Significantly, the clinical studies also confirm the activation of ATR and DOUXA1 in ovarian cancer patients, and elevated DOUXA1 or ATR-Chk1 pathway correlates with poor prognosis. Taken together, our findings not only reveal a novel mechanism regulating cisplatin resistance, but also provide multiple combinational strategies to overcome platinum-resistance in ovarian cancer.
Blocking schistosome egg production, therefore, presents a strategy for simultaneously reducing immunopathology as well as limiting disease transmission in endemic or emerging areas. We recently demonstrated that the ribonucleoside analogue 5-azacytidine (5-AzaC) inhibited Schistosoma mansoni oviposition, egg maturation and ovarian development. While these anti-fecundity effects were associated with a loss of DNA methylation, other molecular processes affected by 5-AzaC were not examined at the time. By comparing the transcriptomes of 5-AzaC-treated females to controls, we provide evidence that this ribonucleoside analogue also modulates other crucial aspects of schistosome egg-laying biology. For example, S. mansoni gene products associated with amino acid-, carbohydrate-, fatty acid-, nucleotide- and tricarboxylic acid (TCA)- homeostasis are all dysregulated in 5-AzaC treated females. To validate the metabolic pathway most significantly affected by 5-AzaC, amino acid metabolism, nascent protein synthesis was subsequently quantified in adult schistosomes. Here, 5-AzaC inhibited this process by 68% ±16.7% (SEM) in male- and 81% ±4.8% (SEM) in female-schistosomes. Furthermore, the transcriptome data indicated that adult female stem cells were also affected by 5-AzaC. For instance, 40% of transcripts associated with proliferating schistosome cells were significantly down-regulated by 5-AzaC. This finding correlated with a considerable reduction (95%) in the number of 5-ethynyl-2′-deoxyuridine (EdU) positive cells found in 5-AzaC-treated females. In addition to protein coding genes, the effect that 5-AzaC had on repetitive element expression was also assessed. Here, 46 repeats were found differentially transcribed between 5-AzaC-treated and control females with long terminal repeat (LTR) and DNA transposon classes being amongst the most significant. This study demonstrates that the anti-fecundity activity of 5-AzaC affects more than just DNA methylation in schistosome parasites. Further characterisation of these processes may reveal novel targets for schistosomiasis control.
This work requires the use of model animals, both for the supply of corneal endothelial cells (CECs) for experimentation, and to serve as recipients for test transplants. A variety of species can be used, however, a number of important advantages can be gained by using sheep as transplant recipients. The purpose of the present study was therefore to develop a method for culturing sheep CECs that would be suitable for the eventual construction of corneal endothelium grafts destined for sheep subjects. A method was established for culturing sheep CECs and these were compared to cultured human CECs. Results showed that cultured sheep and human CECs had similar growth characteristics when expanded from corneal endothelium explants on gelatin-coated plates, and achieved similar cell densities after several weeks. Furthermore, the markers zonula occludens-1, N-cadherin and sodium potassium ATPase could be immunodetected in similar staining patterns at cell boundaries of cultured CECs from both species. This work represents the first detailed study of sheep CEC cultures, and is the first demonstration of their similarities to human CEC cultures. Our results indicate that sheep CECs would be an appropriate substitute for human CECs when developing methods to produce tissue engineered corneal endothelium transplants.
Being considered to have low toxicity in mammals, their toxicological information for aquatic animals remains poorly understood. We examined the developmental toxicity of citrate esters including tributyl O-acetylcitrate (ATBC), triethyl 2-acetylcitrate (ATEC), and trihexyl O-acetylcitrate (ATHC) together with dibutyl phthalate (DBP) based on the frog embryo teratogenesis assay-Xenopus (FETAX). ATBC has the lowest 96 h LC50 and 96 h EC50 values. In RT-qPCR, the ratio of bax and bcl-2 mRNA was significantly increased by DBP, but not by ATBC, ATEC and ATHC. DNA fragmentation was obvious in DBP-treated tadpoles, but not in those treated with ATBC and ATEC, whereas ATHC caused necrotic DNA degradation. Lipid hydroperoxide levels in tadpoles were significantly increased by DBP and ATHC, but not by ATBC and ATEC, suggesting that induction of oxidative stress by DBP and ATHC in embryos. In tadpoles with head abnormalities, basihyal bone, ceratohyal bone and Meckel's cartilage were frequently missed together with reduction in branchial gill bones. Col2a1 mRNA in the head of tadpoles was significantly decreased by low concentration of DBP, ATHC, and high concentration of ATEC. In stage 25 embryos FoxN3 mRNA, a master regulator for differentiation of neural crest cells to chondrocytes in head, was significantly decreased by DBP and ATHC, but not by ATBC and ATEC. In conclusion, ATEC was recommended as the alternative to phthalate plasticizer having the lowest developmental toxicity in amphibian embryos.
Ancylostoma ceylanicum may inhabit the small intestine of canids, felids and humans, can pose a potential risk to public health. This study is the first time to amplify complete mitochondrial genome sequence of A. ceylanicum from dog and to compare it with Ancylostoma tubaeforme, Ancylostoma duodenale and Ancylostoma caninum. The results showed that the complete mitochondrial genome of A. ceylanicum was 13,660 bp in length, including 12 protein-coding genes, 2 rRNA genes and 22 tRNA genes and 3 non-coding regions (AT-rich region, SNCR and LNCR). Its mtDNA was the shortest, biased toward A and T at base composition, and higher than other three Ancylostoma species at total AT content. Its nad5 and nad6 genes used TTG and ATT as initiation codons, while other three Ancylostoma species used ATT and GTG or ATG. The 22 tRNA genes were different in length among four Ancylostoma species, but their anticodons were the same. Among 12 protein-coding genes, the cox1 gene was the lowest at AT content and minimum at Ka/Ks while the nad2 gene was the opposite. The phylogenetic tree showed that in the lineage of Ancylostoma, A. ceylanicum occurred on a branch external to other three Ancylostoma species, and A. caninum and A. tubaeforme had closer phylogenetic relationship than A. duodenale. This study not only enhances the mitochondrial genome database of Ancylostomatidae nematodes, but also provides new data for further phylogenetic studies among Ancylostomatidae nematodes.
Because of their complexity, soil communities are largely underexplored in this context. We studied soil genesis (combination of various soil-forming processes, specific to a particular soil type) that is driven by microbial activity. To investigate the interrelation between soil type and microbial diversity, we analyzed six soil types that are common in Russia, the Crimea, and Kazakhstan using 16S rDNA pyrosequencing. Soils of different types varied in the taxonomic composition of microbial communities. Their core microbiomes comprised 47 taxa within the orders Solirubrobacteriales and Hyphomicrobiaceae and the Gaiellaceae family. Two species from Bradyrhizobiaceae and Solirubrobactriaceae were present in all samples, whereas most other taxa were soil-type specific. Multiple resampling analysis revealed that two random soil samples from the same soil type shared more taxa than two samples from different types. The differences in community composition were mostly affected by the variation in pH values and exchangeable potassium content. The results show that data on the soil microbiome could be used for soil identification and clarification of their taxonomic position.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification is implicated to play an important role in cellular biological processes, but its regulatory mechanisms in arsenite-induced carcinogenesis are largely unknown. Here, human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells were chronically treated with 2.5 μM arsenite sodium (NaAsO2) for about 13 weeks and these cells were identified with malignant phenotype which was demonstrated by increased levels of cellular proliferation, percentages of plate colony formation and soft agar clone formation, and high potential of resistance to apoptotic induction. Our results firstly demonstrated that m6A modification on RNA was significantly increased in arsenite-transformed cells and this modification may be synergistically regulated by methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3), methyltransferase-like 14 (METTL14), Wilms tumor 1-associated protein (WTAP) and Fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO). In addition, knocking down of METTL3 in arsenite-transformed cells can dramatically reverse the malignant phenotype, which was manifested by lower percentages of clone and colony formation as well as higher rates of apoptotic induction. Given the critical roles of miRNAs in cellular proliferation and apoptosis, miRNAs regulated by m6A in arsenite-transformed cells were analyzed by Venn diagram and KEGG pathway in this study. The results showed that these m6A-mediated miRNAs can regulate pathways which are closely associated with cellular proliferation and apoptosis, implicating that these miRNAs may be the critical bridge by which m6A mediates dysregulation of cell survival and apoptosis in arsenite-transformed cells. Taken together, our results firstly demonstrated the significant role of m6A in the prevention of tumor occurrence and progression induced by arsenite.
Results obtained have shown that maternal L-glutamate intake did not significantly affect neither weights of pups nor negative geotaxis reflex, an index of neurobehavioral development, but increased L-Glu plasma level in both male and female neonates. In male neonates, maternal L-Glu intake evoked a loss of mGluR1 whereas no variation on mGluR5 was observed as revealed by Western-blotting assay. The loss of mGlu1R was accompanied by a decrease on L-Glu-stimulated phospholipase C activity suggesting, therefore, a loss of group I mGluR functionality. Concerning female neonates, no variations were detected neither mGluR1 nor mGluR5 and group I mGluR functionality was also preserved.
Ɛ-carbon values for trichloroethylene, cis-1,2-dichloroethylene, and vinyl chloride were −7.24% ± 0.59%, −14.6% ± 1.71%, and −21.1% ± 1.14%, respectively, during their degradation by a microbial consortium containing multiple dechlorinating genes including tceA and vcrA. The Ɛ-carbon values of all CEs were not greatly affected by changes in growth conditions and community structures, which directly or indirectly affected reductive dechlorination of CEs by this consortium. Stability analysis provided evidence that the presence of multiple dechlorinating genes within a microbial consortium had little effect on carbon isotope fractionation, as long as the genes have definite, non-overlapping functions.
In the study, a novel sensing strategy based on dual-probe mode, which involved two groups of 2′-fluoro ribonucleic acid (2′-F RNA) modified probes, was designed for the detection of synthetic target double-strand DNA (dsDNA) of PML/RARα fusion genes in APL. And each pair of probes contained a thiolated capture probe (C1 or C2) immobilized on one of electrode surfaces in the dual-channel electrochemical biosensor and a biotinylated reporter probe (R1 or R2). The two groups of 2′-F RNA modified probes were separately complementary with the corresponding strand (Sa or Sb) from target dsDNA in order to prevent renaturation of target dsDNA. Through flanking target dsDNA, two “sandwitch” complexes (C1/Sa/R1 and C2/Sb/R2) were separately shaped by capture probes (C1 and C2) and free reporter probes (R1 and R2) in hybridization solution on the surfaces of different electrodes after the thermal denaturation. The biotin-modified enzyme which produced the measurable electrochemical current signal was localized to the surface by affinity binding between biotin with streptavidin. Under the optimal condition, the biosensor was able to detect 84 fM target dsDNA and showed a good specificity in PBS hybridization solution. Otherwise, the investigations of the specificity and sensitivity of the biosensor were carried out further in the mixed hybridization solution containing different kinds of mismatch sequences as interference background. It can be seen that under a certain interference background, the method still exhibited excellent selectivity and specificity for the discrimination between the fully-complementary and the mismatch sequences. The results of our research laid a good basis of further detection research in practical samples.
In the ecotoxicological assessment of petroleum hydrocarbon-contaminated soil, microbial community profile is important aspect due to their involvement in soil functions. However, soil physicochemical properties and the inhabiting plants could dictate the microbial composition. A question remains unanswered is, how an integrated approach may be utilized to account for various contrasting soil properties, plant types (reference vs. native) and the nature of the hydrocarbon contamination. In this study, we utilized bacterial DNA profiling techniques to investigate the relationship between soil properties, contaminant and plant species. Results identified that Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria were the most abundant bacteria of the 45 phyla identified in the hydrocarbon-contaminated soil. The bulk and rhizosphere microbiome showed that the contaminated soil originally had quite distinct bacterial communities compared to the artificially contaminated soil (mine soil = 95 genera vs. other soils = 2–29 genera). In these cases, not significantly but the native plant slightly increased bacterial diversity and relative abundance in the same soils. Also, within each site, the bacterial community was significantly altered with the hydrocarbon concentration. In this instance, the influence of the contaminant was strong and also with the soil pH and organic matter. These results would significantly contribute to the novel insights on the molecular technique-based hydrocarbon toxicity assessment and the development of the further integrative approach with other microbial community and their metabolic profile in the contaminated sites.
The consumption of nootropic drugs has increased tremendously in the last decade, though the studies on their environmental fate are still scarce. Nootropics are bioactive compounds designed to alter human's physiology therefore the adverse effects towards wildlife can be expected. In order to understand their environmental impact, the knowledge on their transformation pathways is necessary. Methylphenidate belongs to the most prescribed neuro-enhancers and is among the most favored smart drugs used in non-medical situations. It is metabolized in human liver and excreted as ritalinic acid. Here, we showed for the first time that ritalinic acid can be biodegraded and used as a sole carbon and nitrogen source by various microbial strains originating from different environmental samples. Five axenic strains were isolated and identified as: Arthrobacter sp. strain MW1, MW2 and MW3, Phycicoccus sp. strain MW4 and Nocardioides sp. strain MW5. Our research provides the first insight into the metabolism of ritalinic acid and suggests that it may differ depending on the strain and growth conditions, especially on availability of nitrogen. The isolates obtained in this study can serve as model organisms in further studies on the catabolism of ritalinic acid and methylphenidate but potentially also other compounds with similar structures. Our findings have important implication for the sewage epidemiology. We demonstrated that ritalinic acid is subject to quick and efficient biodegradation thus its use as a stable biomarker should be reconsidered.
Piracetam (2-oxo-1-pyrrolidine acetamide) is a popular cognitive enhancer, which has recently been detected in waste and drinking water. Nootropic drugs are designed to affect human metabolism and act on the nervous system, but their environmental effects have yet to be the subject of detailed studies. In this report, we present the efficient biodegradation of the cognitive enhancer, piracetam. Two bacterial strains capable of using this compound as the sole carbon source were isolated and later identified as Ochrobactrum anthropi strain MW6 and Ochrobactrum intermedium strain MW7. The compound's mineralization and the cleavage of the heterocyclic ring were shown in the experiments with 14C-labeled piracetam. This is also the first report of a pharmaceutical's degradation by the Ochrobactrum genus. This study presents model microorganisms that can be used in further investigation of piracetam's degradation pathways as well as enzymes and genes involved in the process.
, and Moschus moschiferus L.). It has been used for detoxification and treating cancer and inflammatory diseases in China, Japan, and Korea. However, the mechanism of action of JGJ on keratinocyte inflammatory response is poorly understood. Aim of the study: In the present study, we investigated the anti-inflammatory mechanism of JGJ and studied the effects of JGJ on atopic dermatitis-like skin lesions in mice. Materials and methods: We elucidated the anti-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory effects of JGJ on tumor necrosis factor-α/interferon-γ (TNF-α/IFN-γ)-treated human keratinocyte cells, IgE-sensitized RBL-2H3 cells, and 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB)-induced atopic dermatitis (AD)-like mice, respectively. Results: The results showed that JGJ suppressed the production and mRNA revels of IL-8, IL-6 and, conspicuously, both TARC and RANTES. JGJ inhibited nuclear translocation of the inflammatory transcription factors NFκB and STAT-1. Moreover, JGJ improved AD-like skin lesions in DNCB-treated mice and inhibited degranulation of mast cell. Conclusions: The results of this study suggest that JGJ can be considered as a candidate agent for AD treatment.
Thymoquinone (TQ), the predominant bioactive constituent present in black cumin (Nigella sativa), exerts tumor suppressive activity against a wide variety of cancer cells. Cellular senescence, characterized by stable and long term loss of proliferative capacity, acts as a potent tumor suppressive mechanism. Here, we provide evidence for the first time that TQ suppresses growth of glioma cells by potentially inducing the expression of prostate apoptosis response-4 (Par-4) tumor suppressor protein. In turn, TQ-induced Par-4 expression triggers cellular senescence, as evidenced by increasing cellular size, β-galactosidase staining, G1 phase arrest, and increased expression of senescence markers such as p53, p21, Rb, and decreased expression of lamin B1, cyclin E and cyclin depended kinase-2 (CDK-2). Further, overexpression of Par-4 significantly increases the expression of p53 and its downstream target p21, and increases β-galactosidase positive cells, while siRNA/shRNA mediated-knockdown of Par-4 reverses the TQ-induced effects. Altogether, we describe a novel mechanism of cross talk between Par-4 and p53, that plays a critical role in TQ-induced senescence in human malignant glioma cells.
Blood-based liquid biopsies provide a minimally invasive alternative to identify cellular and molecular signatures that can be used as biomarkers to detect early-stage cancer, predict disease progression, longitudinally monitor response to chemotherapeutic drugs, and provide personalized treatment options. Specific targets in blood that can be used for detailed molecular analysis to develop highly specific and sensitive biomarkers include circulating tumor cells (CTCs), exosomes shed from tumor cells, cell-free circulating tumor DNA (cfDNA), and circulating RNA. Given the low abundance of CTCs and other tumor-derived products in blood, clinical evaluation of liquid biopsies is extremely challenging. Microfluidics technologies for cellular and molecular separations have great potential to either outperform conventional methods or enable completely new approaches for efficient separation of targets from complex samples like blood. In this article, we provide a comprehensive overview of blood-based targets that can be used for analysis of cancer, review microfluidic technologies that are currently used for isolation of CTCs, tumor derived exosomes, cfDNA, and circulating RNA, and provide a detailed discussion regarding potential opportunities for microfluidics-based approaches in cancer diagnostics.
Wood-tar is a liquid material obtained by wood gasification process, and comprises several polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH). Tar biodegradation is a very challenging task, due to its toxicity and to its complex chemistry. The ‘microbial resource management’ concerns the use of environmental microbial communities potentially able to provide us services. We applied this concept in tar biodegradation. Tar composed by several PAH (including phenanthrene, acenaphthylene and fluorene) was subjected to a biodegradation process in triplicate microcosms spiked with a microbial community collected from PAH-rich soils. In 20 days, 98.9% of tar was mineralized or adsorbed to floccules, while negative controls showed poor PAH reduction. The dynamics of fungal and bacterial communities was assessed through Automated Ribosomal Intergenic Spacer Analysis (ARISA), 454 pyrosequencing of the fungal ITS and of the bacterial 16S rRNA. Quantification of the degrading bacterial communities was performed via quantitative Real Time PCR of the 16S rRNA genes and of the cathecol 2,3-dioxygenase genes. Results showed the importance of fungal tar-degrading populations in the first period of incubation, followed by a complex bacterial dynamical growth ruled by co-feeding behaviors.
Microbial ecology within oligotrophic marine sediment is poorly understood, yet is critical for understanding geochemical cycles. Here, 16S rRNA sequences from RNA and DNA inform the structure of active and total microbial communities in oligotrophic sediment on the western flank of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Sequences identified as Bacillariophyta chloroplast were detected within DNA, but undetectable within RNA, suggesting preservation in 5.6-million-year-old sediment. Statistical analysis revealed that RNA-based microbial populations correlated significantly with nitrogen concentrations, whereas DNA-based populations did not correspond to measured geochemical analytes. Bioenergetic calculations determined which metabolisms could yield energy in situ, and found that denitrification, nitrification, and nitrogen fixation were all favorable. A metagenome was produced from one sample, and included genes mediating nitrogen redox processes. Nitrogen respiration by active bacteria is an important metabolic strategy in North Pond sediments, and could be widespread in the oligotrophic sedimentary biosphere.
Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group. In this study, the complete mitogenome sequence of red-crowned crane (G. japonensis) has been decoded by next-generation sequencing and genome assembly. The assembled mitogenome, consisting of 16,727 bp, has unique 14 protein-coding genes (PCGs), 22 transfer RNAs, and two ribosomal RNAs genes. The complete mitogenome provides essential and important DNA molecular data for further phylogenetic and evolutionary analysis for red-crowned crane phylogeny.
Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group. Half-fin anchovy (Setipinna tenuifilis) is one of the most important economic fishes around the world. In the present study, we determined the complete mitochondrial DNA sequence and organization of S. tenuifilis. The entire mitochondrial genome is a circular-molecule of 16,215 bp in length, which encodes 37 genes in all. These genes comprise 13 protein-coding genes (ATP6 and 8, COI–III, Cytb, ND1-6, and 4L), 22 transfer RNA genes (tRNAs), and two ribosomal RNA genes (12S and 16S rRNAs), with gene arrangement and content basically identical to those of other species of Engraulidae. The result of phylogenetic analysis strongly supported that S. tenuifilis was first clustered together with Setipinna melanochir and formed a monophyly in the genus Coilia, and then they constituted a sister-group relationship with two genus Engraulis, and Stolephorus. It concluded that the S. tenuifilis should be classified into the genus Setipinna. The present study also revealed the phylogenetic relationship of this genus at molecular levels. The complete mitochondrial genome sequence of S. tenuifilis can provide basic information for the studies on molecular taxonomy and phylogeny of teleost fishes.
Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group. The hybrid loach of Misgurnus anguillicaudatus (female) and Paramisgurnus dabryanus ssp. (male) has the desirable trait of growth performance. Recently, farming scale of this hybrid has been gradually increased in Asia, suggesting a promise of a new variety for loach. In this study, the complete mitochondrial genome of the hybrid loach was obtained by PCR. The genome is 16,646 bp in length, including two ribosomal RNA genes. Thirteen proteins-coding genes, 22 transfer RNA genes, and a non-coding control region, the gene composition and order of were similar to most reported from other vertebrates. Sequence analysis showed that the overall base composition is 29.8% for A, 28.3% for T, 25.6% for C, and 16.3% for G. The phylogenetic tree showed that Misgurnus family got together for one branch, which includes this hybrid loach, and the other loaches had their own branches. Also the mitochondrial genome sequences of the hybrid loach were aligned by BLAST, compared with Cobitidae the sequence similarity could reach >95%, and the similarity to Misgurnus was >99%. The hybrid loach follows the matrilineal inheritance.
This study aimed to track Yersinia enterocolitica contamination in a pork production chain in Minas Gerais, Brazil, and to characterize the virulence and antibiotic resistance of isolates. Samples were collected from four different steps of the pork production chain (pig farm, carcass, processing environment and end product; n = 870), and tested for the presence of Y. enterocolitica. The pathogen was detected in 8 samples (palatine tonsils = 5; mesenteric lymph nodes = 2; carcass after bleeding = 1), from which 16 isolates were obtained and identified as Y. enterocolitica bioserotype 4/O:3. XbaI macrorestriction allowed the clustering of isolates in 5 pulsetypes, and the identification of identical profiles of Y. enterocolitca isolated from different samples. All isolates were positive for the virulence related genes ail, virF, myfA, ystA, tccC, ymoA, hreP and sat, and negative for ystB, ystC, fepA, fepD and fes. Considering 17 antibiotics from 11 classes, only ciprofloxacin and kanamycin were effective against all isolates, and three multidrug resistance profiles were identified among them, with simultaneous resistance to 9 of 11 classes. All isolates presented positive results for emrD, yfhD and marC, related to multidrug resistance. The results of this study demonstrated the contamination routes of Y. enterocolitica within the assessed pork production chain, and highlighted the pathogenic potential and antibiotic resistance of this foodborne pathogen.
The present study aimed to identify the microbiota present in six species of processed edible insects produced in Thailand and marketed worldwide via the internet, namely, giant water bugs (Belostoma lutarium), black ants (Polyrhachis), winged termites (alates, Termitoidae), rhino beetles (Hyboschema contractum), mole crickets (Gryllotalpidae), and silkworm pupae (Bombyx mori). For each species, two samples of boiled, dried and salted insects were purchased. The microbial DNA was extracted from the insect samples and subjected to polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE), high-throughput sequencing and qualitative real-time PCR assays. The microbiota of the analyzed samples were widely characterized by the presence of spore-forming bacteria mainly represented by the genera Bacillus and Clostridium. Moreover, the genera Anaerobacillus, Paenibacillus, Geobacillus, Pseudomonas, Stenotrophomonas, Massilia, Delftia, Lactobacillus, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Vagococcus, and Vibrio were also detected. Real-time PCR allowed for ascertainment of the absence of Coxiella burnetii, Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC), and Pseudomonas aeruginosa in all samples. The results of this study confirm the importance of combining different molecular techniques to characterize the biodiversity of complex ecosystems such as edible insects. The presence of potential human pathogens suggests the need for a careful application of good manufacturing practices during insect processing. This study provides further data that will be useful in risk analyses of edible insects as a novel food source.
Elevated levels of oxidative nucleic acid modifications have been proposed to be associated with some of the clinical characteristics of Down syndrome. Oral intake of coenzyme Q10 improves oxidative status and shows a tendency toward protective effect on DNA oxidation in certain age groups of children with Down syndrome. Here, we demonstrate that long-term (i.e., 4 years) treatment with coenzyme Q10 (ubiquinone) at the dosage of 4 mg/kg/d does not affect whole body DNA and RNA oxidation.
The binding of TDP-43 to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) or RNA is involved in transcriptional repression, regulation of RNA splicing, and RNA stabilization. Equilibrium dissociation constants (Kd) of TDP-43 and ssDNA or RNA have been determined using various methods; however, methods that can measure Kd with high sensitivity in a short time using a small amount of TDP-43 in solution would be advantageous. Here, in order to determine the Kd of TDP-43 and fluorescence-labeled ssDNA as well as the binding stoichiometry, we use fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS), which detects the slowed diffusion of molecular interactions in solution with single-molecule sensitivity, in addition to electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Using tandem affinity chromatography of TDP-43 dually tagged with glutathione-S-transferase and poly-histidine tags, highly purified protein was obtained. FCS successfully detected specific interaction between purified TDP-43 and TG ssDNA repeats, with a Kd in the nanomolar range. The Kd of the TDP-43 mutant was not different from the wild type, although mutant oligomers, which did not bind ssDNA, were observed. Analysis of the fluorescence brightness per dimerized TDP-43/ssDNA complex was used to evaluate their binding stoichiometry. The results suggest that an assay combining FCS and EMSA can precisely analyze ssDNA recognition mechanisms, and that FCS may be applied for the rapid and quantitative determination of the interaction strength between TDP-43 and ssDNA or RNA. These methods will aid in the elucidation of the substrate recognition mechanism of ALS- and FTLD-associated variants of TDP-43.
We explored the associations between Cr(VI) exposure, methylation modification of DNA repair genes and their expression levels, and genetic damage. Results showed that hypermethylation of CpG sites were observed in both occupationally exposed workers and 16HBE cells administrated Cr(VI). DNA damage markers including 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and micronucleus frequency in Cr(VI)-exposed workers were significantly higher than the control group. Among workers, blood Cr concentration was positively correlaed with the methylation level of CpG sites in DNA repair genes including CpG6,7, CpG8, CpG9,10,11 of MGMT, CpG11 of HOGG1; CpG15,16,17, CpG19 of RAD51, and genetic damage markers including 8-OHdG and micronucleus frequency. Significant negative association between methylation levels of CpG sites in DNA repair genes and corresponding mRNA was also observed in 16HBE cells. This indicated that Cr(VI) exposure can down-regulate DNA repair gene expression by hypermethylation, which leads to enhanced genetic damage. The methylation level of these CpG sites of DNA repair genes can be potential epigenetic markers for Cr(VI)-induced DNA damage. Cr(VI) introduced genetic damage via downregulation of DNA repair genes including MGMT, HOGG1 and RAD51 by hypermethylation at CpG sites.
Because PARP primarily functions in sensing and repairing DNA strand breaks, the therapeutic effect of PARP inhibition is generally believed to be attributed to impaired DNA repair. We here report that oxidative stress is also increased by PARP inhibition and mediates the antitumor effect. We showed that PARP1 is highly expressed in specimens of high grade serous ovarian carcinoma and its activity is required for unperturbed proliferation of ovarian cancer cells. Inhibition or depletion of PARP leads to not only an increase in DNA damage, but also an elevation in the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Importantly, antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) significantly attenuated the induction of DNA damage and the perturbation of proliferation by PARP inhibition or depletion. We further showed that NADPH oxidases 1 and 4 were significantly upregulated by PARP inhibition and were partially responsible for the induction of oxidative stress. Depletion of NOX1 and NOX4 partially rescued the growth inhibition of PARP1-deficient tumor xenografts. Our findings suggest that in addition to compromising the repair of DNA damage, PARP inhibition or depletion may exert extra antitumor effect by elevating oxidative stress in ovarian cancer cells.
Here, we showed that Bombyx mori cells transiently expressing B. mori homolog of the tumor suppressor p53 (Bm-p53) protein underwent apoptosis accompanied by elevated caspase-3-like protease activity and processing of B. mori Dronc (Bm-Dronc). RNAi-mediated silencing of bm-p53 expression, which significantly diminished accumulation of bm-p53 transcript and Bm-p53 protein, prevented apoptosis of B. mori cells infected with a recombinant B. mori nucleopolyhedrovirus defective in the anti-apoptotic p35 gene (vBmΔp35) and abolished the activation of caspase-3-like protease and processing of Bm-Dronc. Apoptosis in vBmΔp35-infected B. mori cells is associated with viral DNA replication, suggesting involvement of the DNA damage response. The Bm-p53 pro-apoptotic function is also found in Spodoptera frugiperda and Lymantria dispar cells. These results indicate that apoptosis induction in vBmΔp35-infected B. mori cells is a Bm-p53-mediated process promoted by the commencement of viral DNA replication.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a key regulator of vascular formation and a predominant protein biomarker in cancer angiogenesis. Owing to its crucial roles in the cancer metastasis, VEGF detection and quantification is of great importance in clinical diagnostics. Today, there exist a wide variety of detection strategies for identifying many types of disease biomarkers, especially for VEGF. As artificial single-stranded DNA or RNA oligonucleotides with catalytic and receptor properties, aptamers have drawn lots of attention to be applied in biosensing platforms due to their target-induced conformational changes as well as high stability and target versatility. So far, various sensitivity-enhancement techniques in combination with a broad range of smart nanomaterials have integrated into the design of novel aptasensors to improve detection limit and sensitivity of analyte detection. This review article provides a brief classification and description of the research progresses of aptamer-based biosensors and nanobiosensors for the detection and quantitative determination of VEGF based on optical and electrochemical platforms.
Multiple genes within distinct functional categories are coordinately and temporally regulated by transcriptional ‘on’ and ‘off’ switches that account for the specificity of gene expression in response to external stimuli. Mechanisms that control transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation are important in coordinating the initiation and resolution of inflammation. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is an important cytokine that, in Ciona robusta, is related to inflammatory response. It is well known that in C. robusta, formerly known as Ciona intestinalis, the pharynx is involved in the inflammatory reaction induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection in the body wall. Using this biological system, we describe the identification of two C. robusta MIFs (CrMIF1 and CrMIF2). The phylogenetic tree and modeling support a close relationship with vertebrate MIF family members. CrMIF1 and CrMIF2 possess two evolutionally conserved catalytic sites: a tautomerase and an oxidoreductase site with a conserved CXXC motif. Real-time PCR analysis shows a prompt expression induced by LPS inoculation in CrMIF1 and a late upregulation of CrMIF2 and in silico analyses of 3'UTR show a cis-acting GAIT element and a CPE element in 3’-UTR, which are not present in the 3’-UTR of CrMIF1, suggesting that different transcriptional and post-transcriptional control mechanisms are involved in the regulation of gene expression of MIF during inflammatory response in C. robusta.
Brain aromatase is a key enzyme exclusively expressed in fish radial glial cells that convert androgens into estrogens, thus controlling neuroendocrine functions and neurogenesis. As an important step in characterizing the neuroendocrine systems of Rhamdia quelen (jundiá), a partial cDNA sequence (1045 bp) of brain aromatase (cyp19a1b) was cloned and sequenced. At the nucleotide level the cDNA sequence was found to be 88% identical to cyp19a1b of two species of catfish, Ictalurus punctatus and Silurus meridionalis. The predicted amino acid sequence was between 80 and 91% similar to other teleosts. Real-time RT-qPCR analysis revealed that cyp19a1b was detected in pituitary, hypothalamus, telencephalon, head and posterior kidneys, liver and gonads (testis and ovary) of both males and females. The effects of E2 on cyp19a1b expression are sexually dimorphic in R. quelen. The injection of 17β-estradiol (E2) decreased head kidney mRNA levels of cyp19a1b in males and increased cyp19a1b mRNA levels in the pituitary and head kidney of females. This study demonstrated that the R. quelen cyp19a1b gene is expressed in brain, pituitary and peripheral tissues in both males and females.
The mitochondrial genome provides sets of genome-level characteristics, which can be useful in resolving ancient relationships. The complete mitochondrial genomes of five Reticunassa and one Nassarius were sequenced, including Reticunassa hiradoensis, R. fratercula, R. festiva complex A, B and C and Nassarius variciferus, and compared with other two Nassariidae species (Tritia reticulatus and T. obsolete). Eight genomes show the same gene order as in other caenogastropods, containing 13 protein-coding genes, 2 ribosome RNA genes and 22 transfer RNA genes, except R. fratercula, which lacks the trnF. Three-nucleotide deletion in nad6 genes, truncated major non-coding regions are detected in all Reticunassa mitogenomes. The reconstructed phylogenetic trees show (Reticunassa + (Tritia + Nassarius)) at genus level and support the relationship between R. festiva-C and the clade formed by R. hiradoensis + R. fratercula and R. festiva-A + R. festiva-B within Reticunassa. The specific mitogenomic characters and phylogenetic analyses support the validity of genus Reticunassa. Pairwise genetic distances of protein-coding genes between R. festiva complex A, B and C range from 0.063 to 0.109, which are close to that of R. hiradoensis and R. fratercula (0.065), and higher than those of several closely related sister species of mollusks. These variation in mitochondrial genomes of Reticunassa indicate that R. festiva-A, R. festiva-B and R. festiva-C should be considered as separate species.
These microscopic asexually reproductive structures are small enough to reach the lungs. Germination of conidia followed by hyphal growth inside human lungs is a key step in the establishment of infection in immunocompromised patients. RNA-Seq was used to analyze the transcriptome of dormant and germinating A. fumigatus conidia. Construction of a gene co-expression network revealed four gene clusters (modules) correlated with a growth phase (dormant, isotropic growth, polarized growth). Transcripts levels of genes encoding for secondary metabolites were high in dormant conidia. During isotropic growth, transcript levels of genes involved in cell wall modifications increased. Two modules encoding for growth and cell cycle/DNA processing were associated with polarized growth. In addition, the co-expression network was used to identify highly connected intermodular hub genes. These genes may have a pivotal role in the respective module and could therefore be compelling therapeutic targets. Generally, cell wall remodeling is an important process during isotropic and polarized growth, characterized by an increase of transcripts coding for hyphal growth and cell cycle/DNA processing when polarized growth is initiated.
The establishment of optimal treatments to mitigate the intimal hyperplasia (IH)-induced restenosis would help relieve the health burden of the PVD. Ribonucleotide reductase M2 (RRM2) is critical to cellular migration and proliferation. We have previously demonstrated that suppression of RRM2 expression could substantially inhibit hepatocellular carcinoma cell proliferation and migration. We hereby developed RRM2 small interfering RNA (siRNA)-loaded cell penetrating peptides-conjugated liposome-polycation-DNA complex (LPD) (RRM2-CLPD), aiming to inhibit the migration and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) crucial for IH. RRM2-CLPD is of a small size (∼150 nm) and high siRNA encapsulation efficiency (∼90%). Further, we demonstrated that RRM2-CLPD could significantly inhibited RRM2 gene and protein expression by ∼80%. Notably, RRM2-CLPD was able to effectively bind to VSMCs, resulting in significant cellular proliferation and migration inhibition. Taken together, RRM2-CLPD represent a very promising treatment for IH.
A 60-day feeding trial was conducted to optimize the dietary protein (30, 28 & 26%) and lipid (6,7 & 8%) levels for optimum inclusion of 33% de-oiled rice bran based (DORB) diets on the growth performance, feed utilization, expression of insulin like growth factor (IGF-I and IGF-II) and RNA/DNA ratio in the Labeo rohita. The formulated diets were different combination of protein and lipid levels while fixing the level of DORB at 33% viz., P30L6, P30L7, P30L8, P28L6, P28L7, P28L8, P26L6, P26L7 and P26L8 (P-Protein, L-Lipid), respectively.Two hundred seventy fingerlings (average wt. 5.56 g ± 0.2) were equally distributed in nine treatments in triplicates with 10 fish per tank. The weight gain % (WG) and specific growth rate (SGR) increased with the decreasing protein level and increasing lipid level in diets. Highest weight gain % and specific growth rate was along with lowest FCR were recorded in the group fed with 26% protein and 7% lipid. The protein efficiency ratio (PER) was significantly (p < 0.05) higher in P26L7 and P26L8 groups. The expression of IGF-I mRNA was found to be higher in P26L7 group as compared to other groups. Though the expression of IGF-II was significantly (p < 0.05) higher in P26L7 group, it was similar to the P26L8 group. The RNA concentration and RNA/DNA ratio was found significantly (p < 0.05) higher in the P26L7 group. Dietary protein level did not affect significantly (p > 0.05) on whole body protein and lipid content. Significantly (p < 0.05) higher body lipid level and lower protein level was found at 26% protein and 8% dietary lipid fed group. Hence, diet containing 33% DORB with 26% crude protein and 7% lipid level is optimal for supporting maximum growth and feed utilization of Labeo rohita.
Application of machine learning algorithms to such data could find diagnostic utility as biomarkers both to define the presence of the disorder and to quantitate its severity and find myriad applications in a developmental pipeline towards therapeutics and cure. Recent epigenomic studies have uncovered a wealth of clinically important data relating to synapse-nucleus signalling, memory storage, lineage-fate determination and cellular control and are contributing greatly to our understanding of all SUD's. Epigenetics interacts extensively with glycobiology. Glycans decorate DNA, RNA and many circulating critical proteins particularly immunoglobulins. Glycosylation is emerging as a major information-laden post-translational protein modification with documented application for biomarker development. The integration of these two emerging cutting-edge technologies provides a powerful and fertile algorithmic-bioinformatic space for the development both of SUD biomarkers and novel cutting edge therapeutics. Hypotheses: These lines of evidence provide fertile ground for hypotheses relating to both diagnosis and treatment. They suggest that biomarkers derived from epigenomics complemented by glycobiology may potentially provide a bedside diagnostic tool which could be developed into a clinically useful biomarker to gauge both the presence and the severity of SUD's. Moreover they suggest that modern information-based therapeutics acting on the epigenome, via RNA interference or by DNA antisense oligonucleotides may provide a novel 21st century therapeutic development pipeline towards the radical cure of addictive disorders. Such techniques could be focussed and potentiated by neurotrophic vectors or the application of interfering electric or magnetic fields deep in the medial temporal lobes of the brain.
However, the functions of IFIT proteins in birds are largely unknown. Here, we first describe that the only one avian IFIT protein is orthologous to ancestor of mammalian IFITs. We find that the predicted structure of duck AvIFIT protein is similar to that of human IFIT5. We also find that duck AvIFIT protein shows antiviral activity to a broad range of specific RNA and DNA viruses like mammalian IFIT proteins. Further analysis indicates that overexpression of duck AvIFIT protein in DF1 cells leads to a remarkable accumulation of cells at G1/S transition associated with growth arrest and may promote apoptosis. Moreover, duck AvIFIT binds to nucleoprotein (NP) of H5N1 influenza virus and upregulates the expression of genes involving the IFN pathway in DF1 cells. In summary, our findings support that duck AvIFIT protein plays critical role in host immune response to viruses, at least H5N1 virus, through affecting function of viral NP protein, magnifying the IFN signaling and arresting cell growth.
However, the requirement of thermocycling procedures largely limits the application of PCR-based methods. Alternatively, several isothermal amplification techniques have been developed since the early 1990s. In particular, according to the reaction kinetics, isothermal exponential amplification techniques possess higher amplification efficiency and detection sensitivity. The isothermal exponential amplification techniques can be mainly divided into two categories: enzyme-based isothermal exponential amplification and enzyme-free isothermal exponential amplification. Considering the advantages of high sensitivity and selectivity, high signal-to-noise ratio, low cost and rapid response time, exponential amplification electrochemical biosensors have attracted considerable attention. In this review, we introduce the basic principles of isothermal exponential amplification techniques and summarize their applications in electrochemical biosensors during the past five years. We also highlighted the present challenges and further perspectives of isothermal exponential amplification-based electrochemical biosensors.
Although many new assays for HIV have been developed, several labs still use simple and reliable radioactivity-based reverse transcriptase (RT) nucleotide incorporation assays for detection and quantification. We describe here a new assay for detection and quantitation of HIV RT activity that is based on a high affinity DNA aptamer to RT. The aptamer is sequestered on 96-well plates where it can bind to RT and other constituents can be removed by extensive washing. Since the aptamer mimics a primer-template, upon radiolabeled nucleotide addition, bound RT molecules can extend the aptamer and the radioactive signal can be detected by standard methods. In addition to being procedurally simple, the assay demonstrated high sensitivity (detection limits for RT and virions were ≤6400 molecules (∼4 × 10−8 units) and ∼100–300 virions, respectively) and was essentially linear over a range of at least 104. Both wild type and drug-resistant forms of HIV-1 RT were detectable as was HIV-2 RT, although there were some modest differences in sensitivity.
The participation of pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins is one of the most crucial events of inducible plant defense response. Herein, we report the characterization of CaHaPR-4, a Helicoverpa-inducible class II PR-4 protein from chickpea. Bioinformatic analysis of CaHaPR-4 protein indicated the presence of a signal peptide, barwin domain but it lacks the chitin-binding site/hevein domain. The recombinant CaHaPR-4 is bestowed with RNase and bivalent ion-dependent DNase activity. Further, the RNA and DNA binding sites were identified and confirmed by analyzing interactions between mutated CaHaPR-4 with the altered active site and ribonuclease inhibitor, 5′ADP and DNase inhibitor, 2‑nitro‑5‑thiocyanobenzoic acid (NTCB) using 3D modeling and docking studies. Moreover, CaHaPR-4 shows antifungal activity as well as growth inhibiting properties against neonatal podborer larvae. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of a PR-4 showing RNase, DNase, antifungal and most importantly insect growth inhibiting properties against Helicoverpa armigera simultaneously.
One of the reasons of this success could be the reproduction strategy of bivalves, characterized by the presence of trochophore larvae. Larval development in bivalves has been a topic of raising interest in the scientific community but it deserves much more attention. The principal objective of this work was to study the transcriptomic profile of the ontogeny of Mytilus galloprovincialis analyzing the gene expression in different developmental stages, from oocytes to juveniles. For this purpose, after conducting a 454 sequencing of the transcriptomes of mussel hemocytes, adult tissues and larvae, a new DNA microarray was designed and developed. The studied developmental stages: unfertilized oocytes, veliger, pediveliger, settled larvae and juveniles, showed very different transcriptomic profiles and clustered in groups defining their characteristic gene expression along ontogeny. Our results show that oocytes present a distinct and characteristic transcriptome. After metamorphosis, both settled larvae and juveniles showed a very similar transcriptome, with no enriched GO terms found between these two stages. This suggests: 1.- the progressive loss of RNA of maternal origin through larval development and 2.- the stabilization of the gene expression after settlement. On the other hand during metamorphosis a specific profile of differentially expressed genes was found. These genes were related to processes such as differentiation and biosynthesis. Processes related to the immune response were strongly down regulated. These suggest a development commitment at the expense of other non-essential functions, which are temporary set aside. Immune genes such as antimicrobial peptides suffer a decreased expression during metamorphosis. In fact, we found that the oocytes which express a higher quantity of genes such as myticins are more likely to reach success of the offspring, compared to oocytes poor in such mRNAs, whose progeny died before reaching metamorphosis.
When the TCE inlet concentrations were approximately 370, 500–900, and 1000 mg/m3, the removal performances followed the order: MFI 20.0 mT > MFI 60.0 mT > MFI 80.0 mT > MFI 0 mT. In particular, at a TCE inlet concentration of 1000 mg/m3, MFI 20.0 mT was significantly better than MFI 0 mT performance. The corresponding removal efficiencies and maximum elimination capacities were 52.9%, 4854.1 mg/m3 h and 39.4%, 3594.8 mg/m3 h, respectively. BTF was shut down completely for 7 days and rapidly recovered in 6–10 days. High-throughput sequencing indicated that MF significantly affected the fungal community and significantly improved the relative abundance of the phylum Ascomycota, achieving the highest abundance of Ascomycota at MFI 20.0. These results indicated that a lower MFI can efficiently improve TCE removal performance in a fungal BTF.
In the present study, single- and four-CRD-containing galectins were identified in oyster Crassostrea gigas (designated CgGal-2 and CgGal-3). The open reading frames (ORFs) of CgGal-2 and CgGal-3 encode polypeptides of 200 and 555 amino acids, respectively. All CRDs of CgGal-3 include two consensus motifs essential for ligand-binding, and a novel motif is present in CgGal-2. Pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP) profiles were determined for recombinant rCgGal-2 and rCgGal-3, and rCgGal-2 displayed low binding affinity for PAMPs, while rCgGal-3 bound various PAMPs including glucan, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and peptidoglycan (PGN) with relatively high affinity. Furthermore, rCgGal-2 and rCgGal-3 exhibited different microbe binding profiles; rCgGal-2 bound to Gram-negative bacteria (Escherichia coli and Vibrio vulnificus) and fungi (Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Pichia pastoris), while rCgGal-3 bound to these microbes but also to Gram-positive bacteria (Micrococcus luteus). In addition, rCgGal-3 possessed microbial agglutinating activity and coagulation activity against fungi and erythrocytes, respectively, but rCgGal-2 lacked any agglutinating activity. Carbohydrate binding specificity analysis showed that rCgGal-3 specifically bound D-galactose. Furthermore, rCgGal-2 and rCgGal-3 functioned as opsonin participating in the clearance against invaders in C. gigas. Thus, CgGal-2 with one CRD and CgGal-3 with four CRDs are new members of the galectin family involved in immune responses against bacterial infection. Differences in the organisation and amino acid sequences of CRDs may affect their specificity and affinity for nonself substances.
Bornyl acetate is the main volatile constituent present in numerous conifer oils, which has displayed its anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties in different types of tissues and cells. However, little information regarding the effects of bornyl acetate on vascular endothelial inflammation has been reported before. In the current study, we aimed to investigate the pharmacological roles of bornyl acetate against ox-LDL-induced leukocyte adhesion to the endothelium. Our findings indicate that bornyl acetate ameliorated ox-LDL-induced reduction in cell viability of HUVECs. Additionally, bornyl acetate inhibited the attachment of THP-1 monocytes to HUVECs induced by treatment with ox-LDL through ameliorating the expression of ICAM-1, VCAM-1, and E-selectin. Mechanistically, we found that bornyl acetate could suppress activation of the IκBα/NF-κB signaling pathway. Lastly, our results indicate that bornyl acetate mitigated expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β. Our results suggest the therapeutic potential of bornyl acetate in patients with atherosclerosis.
Enzyme mimics have been developed for bioassay of nucleic acids, with some of them involving complicated labeling. Herein, we report a label-free bioassay for ultrasensitive electronic determination of microRNA at an ultralow concentration based on target-triggered long-range self-assembly DNA-based hybridization chain reaction (HCR) protocol coupled with bienzyme mimics synergistic catalysis strategy. In this work, a planar intercalation molecule, copper (II) complex, is applied for the first time as a small molecule enzyme mimic as well as intercalation molecule in microRNA biosensor for signal amplification. Fe3O4 nanozyme were used as a separate and enriched target under magnetic field, and also in combination with HCR protocol detected in 3,3’,5,5’-tetramethylbenzidine+hydrogen peroxide (TMB+H2O2) system to improve the sensitivity of the biosensor. Under optimal conditions, these strategies present good electrochemical behaviors for the detection of microRNA with a wide range from 100 aM to 100 nM and at relatively low detection limit of 33 aM This remarkable sensitivity can make this proposed approach a promising scheme for development of next-generation microRNA sensors without the need of enzyme labeling or fluorophore labeling.
β-Carboline moieties are important structural subunits which occur as components of many biologically interesting molecules for antitumor activity. The field of computer aided drug design and discovery (CADD) is a rapidly growing area that has seen many successes in the last few years. Through molecular docking, the binding mode and affinity of the protein-inhibitor complex formed is estimated which in turn helps in the discovery of new drug “Leads”. The anticancer potential of β-Carboline analogues was proven by various targeted mechanisms. In this review, we summarise the binding mode and interactions of β-Carboline derivatives towards the various anticancer targets which advantages the discovery of this scaffold into antitumor therapy.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the fourth leading cause of death worldwide, with increasing prevalence, in particular in the elderly. COPD is characterised by abnormal tissue repair resulting in (small) airways disease and emphysema. There is accumulating evidence that ageing hallmarks are prominent features of COPD. These ageing hallmarks have been described in different subsets of COPD patients, in different lung compartments and also in a variety of cell types, and thus might contribute to different COPD phenotypes. A better understanding of the main differences and similarities between normal lung ageing and the pathology of COPD may improve our understanding of the mechanisms driving COPD pathology, in particular in those patients that develop the most severe form of COPD at a relatively young age, i.e. severe early-onset COPD patients. In this review, after introducing the main concepts of lung ageing and COPD pathology, we focus on the role of (abnormal) ageing in lung remodelling and repair in COPD. We discuss the current evidence for the involvement of ageing hallmarks in these pathological features of COPD. We also highlight potential novel treatment strategies and opportunities for future research based on our current knowledge of abnormal lung ageing in COPD.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the UK Environmental Mutagen Society. All rights reserved. Folates comprise the essential B9 vitamin that act as cofactors and cosubstrates in one-carbon metabolism for both biosynthesis and methylation of DNA and RNA. Folate deficiency (FD) has been shown to induce chromosomal instability (CIN), yet the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we used human NCM460 colon mucosal cells as a model to investigate the effect of FD on spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC), a cell-cycle regulatory pathway preventing CIN during mitosis. Cells were maintained in medium containing 1.36 (FD) and 2260 nM (control, FC) folate for 21 days. CIN was measured by cytokinesis-block micronucleus assay; mitotic infidelity was determined by aberrant mitosis analysis; SAC activity was assessed by nocodazole-challenge assay, and the expression of core SAC genes was examined by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). We found that, relative to FC, FD significantly induced CIN in a time-dependent way (P < 0.01). Mitotic cells cultured in FD medium had significant higher frequencies of misalignment, misegregation and spindle multipolarity than those cultured in FC medium (P < 0.01). FD-induced SAC impairment and overriding, resulting premature mitotic exit and cell multinucleation (P < 0.05). Moreover, FD deregulated the expression of several key SAC genes (P < 0.01). Overall, these data are the first to demonstrate that FD substantially compromises SAC network which predisposes cells to mitotic aberrations and CIN. These results establish a new link between folate metabolism and SAC signalling, two pathways that are highly relevant for tumorigenesis.
With an increase in usage of variety of electric appliances, not only humans but also other coexisting organisms too face an occasional exposure to electric shock. Majority of stresses manifest directly or indirectly through oxidative stress. This study largely deals with understanding the effect of electric stress on catalytic as well as noncatalytic components of antioxidant machinery in insect using Drosophila as a model system. The effect of dietary supplement of ascorbic acid and abhrak bhasma in management of elwectric shock has also been evaluated. The activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase enzymes were assessed as a part of catalytic component while, total GSH content, GSH:GSSG ratio, free radical scavenging capacity were studied as a part of non-catalytic component of antioxidant machinery of cells. Along with these parameters, the molecular effect at transcription levels of cncC (Nrf-2), hsp70 genes as well as the effect on lipid peroxidation was evaluated in response to electric shock. It was observed that ascorbic acid as a dietary supplement, in general, show protective role in electric stress. Abhrak bhasma, on the contrary, negatively affect various antioxidant parameters. Administration of these compounds and subsequent electric shock can thus be tried for demographic manipulations of insects.
DNA methylation is an essential epigenetic modification involved in regulating gene expression and maintaining epigenetic information across generations. However, how these marks are recognized and interpreted to activate or repress imprinted genes is not fully understood. Preliminary evidence describes the transcriptional repressor TRIM28 as a key regulator of imprinted gene expression during and after early genome-wide reprogramming. Aberrant expression of imprinted genes maybe one possible cause of incomplete epigenetic reprogramming and low efficiency in somatic cell nuclear transfer. Here, we perform a series of experiments to determine whether knockdown of Trim28 alters imprinted gene expression and DMR methylation in sheep embryonic fibroblast (SEF) cells. siRNA-mediated Trim28 silencing in SEF cells resulted in significantly decreased expression of Gtl2 to 30% and increased expression of Dlk1 (~ 1.7-fold). Moreover, knocking down Trim28 induced DNA methylation at the IG-DMR and the Gtl2 promoter was disrupted. Here, we uncover an important role for Trim28 in the maintenance of DNA methylation at IG-DMR during replication-dependent dilution of methylated cytosine during cellular proliferation. Unlike Dlk1-Gtl2 however, knocking down Trim28 does not affect DMR methylation in the Igf2-H19 gene cluster, yet results in increased expression of Igf2 and H19. Interestingly, Peg3 expression decreased by 60% in Trim28 knockdown cells. PEG3 as a transcriptional repressor to the H19-ICR that interacts with the co-repressor protein TRIM28 through KRAB-A. Trim28 therefore appears to control the Igf2-H19 imprinted cluster indirectly via PEG3, which is distinct from its classical role in preserving DNA methylation during DNA replication. Our results therefore indicate that Trim28 regulates imprinted gene expression through at least two distinct mechanisms during cells proliferation.
Alternative pre-mRNA splicing increases transcriptome plasticity by forming naturally-occurring alternative splicing variants (ASVs). Alterations of splicing processes, caused by DNA mutations, result in aberrant splicing and the formation of aberrant mRNA isoforms. Analyses of hereditary cancer predisposition genes reveal many DNA variants with unknown clinical significance (VUS) that potentially affect pre-mRNA splicing. Therefore, a comprehensive description of ASVs is an essential prerequisite for the interpretation of germline VUS in high-risk individuals. To identify ASVs in a gene of interest, we have proposed an approach based on multiplex PCR (mPCR) amplification of all theoretically possible exon-exon junctions and subsequent characterization of size-selected and pooled mPCR products by next-generation sequencing (NGS). The efficiency of this method is illustrated by a comprehensive analysis of BRCA1 ASVs in human leukocytes, normal mammary, and adipose tissues and stable cell lines. We revealed 94 BRCA1 ASVs, including 29 variants present in all tested samples. While differences in the qualitative expression of BRCA1 ASVs among the analyzed human tissues were minor, larger differences were detected between tissue and cell line samples. Compared with other ASV analysis methods, this approach represents a highly sensitive and rapid alternative for the identification of ASVs in any gene of interest.
Aim: In this study, the canine endometrium tissue is characterized for its stem cell properties such as adherence to tissue culture plate (plasticity), short population doubling time, serial clonal passaging, long-term culturing properties, stem cell marker expression, and multilineage differentiation potential. Materials and Methods: The present work describes a novel isolation protocol for obtaining mesenchymal stem cells from the uterine endometrium and is compared with cells derived from umbilical cord matrix as a positive control. These cells are clonogenic, can undergo several population doublings in vitro, and can be differentiated to the osteocytes in mature mesenchymal tissues when grown in osteogenic differentiation media as detected by Alizarin Red-S staining. Results: It is reported for the first time that the cells derived from the canine endometrium (e-multipotent stem cells [MSCs]) were able to differentiate into a heterologous cell type: Osteocytes, thus demonstrating the presence of MSCs. Thus, the endometrium may be told as a potential source of MSCs which can be used for various therapeutic purposes. Conclusion: The endometrium can be used as a potential source of MSCs, which can be used for various therapeutic purposes.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a typical autoimmune disorder with multiple organ involvement and unknown etiology. It has been shown that polymorphic variants of the genes encoding key enzymes of folate and methionine metabolism may influence DNA methylation. Genomic DNA was extracted from blood samples of 150 SLE patients and 160 controls, matching age, sex, and ethnicity. MTHFR rs1801133C > T and MTR rs1805087A > G polymorphisms were genotyped by the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method. MTHFR rs1801131A > C genotype was determined by the tetra-primer amplification refractory mutation system (Tetra-ARMS), and DHFR rs70991108 polymorphisms’ genotyping was performed by PCR methods. In-silico approach was used to analyses the effects of these variations on the structure of mRNA and protein. MTHFR rs1801131AC + CC genotypes were significantly higher in the SLE patients compared to the controls (37 vs. 26%, OR 1.7 (95% CI 1–2.8); p = 0.03). The frequency of MTHFR rs1801131C allele was significantly higher in the SLE patients than the controls (22 vs. 15%, p = 0.02). However, there was no association between MTHFR rs1801133C > T polymorphism and SLE. The frequency of CT haplotype of MTHFR rs1801133C > T and rs1801131A > C polymorphisms was significantly higher in the SLE patients (20 vs. 12%), and CT haplotype may be potentially a risk factor for SLE susceptibility [OR 1.9 (95% CI 1.2–2.9); p = 0.006]. There was no association between alleles and genotypes of DHFR rs70991108 polymorphism and SLE susceptibility. The frequency of MTR rs1805087AG genotype was less frequent in the SLE patients compared to the controls, and this genotype could decrease the SLE risk (35 vs. 48%), (OR, 0.6 (95% CI, 0.4 to 0.9), p = 0.03). In silico-analysis showed that both of MTHFR rs1801133C > T and rs1801131A > C SNPs made fundamental changes in the secondary structure of MTHFR-mRNA (p = 0.0412 and p = 0.1641; p < 0.2). Also, structural analysis of the rs1801131A > C variation showed a significant effect on MTHFR function. Bioinformatics analysis showed that rs70991108 polymorphism in DHFR gene would lead to a significant alteration of the splicing process. In conclusion, MTHFR rs1801131 AC + CC genotypes could be a risk factor and MTR rs1805087AG genotype could be a protective factor for SLE susceptibility. There was no association between MTHFR rs1801133C > T and DHFR rs70991108 polymorphisms and SLE.
The spotted knifejaw (Oplegnathus punctatus) is a newly emerging fishery species inhabiting the Pacific Ocean around Hawaii, China, Japan and Korean Peninsula. Little information on the mechanism of gonadal development and gametogenesis in this species could be used for research and breeding work. In this study, RNA-seq technology was applied to generate a deep-coverage sequencing data of spotted knifejaw testis and ovary. A total of 262,392,754 reads (ovary 133,403,270, testis 128,989,484) were generated from the cDNA library. After filtering and assembling, a total of 113,794 unigenes were obtained with the N50 of 1658 bp. Unigenes were annotated with multiple public databases, including non-redundant protein databases (NR) (42,460, 37.31%), Swiss-Prot (33,632, 29.56%), eukaryotic Orthologus Groups (KOG) (26,195, 23.02%), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) (10,978, 9.65%), and Gene Ontology (GO) (30,514, 26.82%). By comparing ovary and testis, 4496 differentially expressed unigenes (1986 in female, 2510 in male) were identified, in which 469 were specially expressed in females and 859 in males. The expression levels of 12 unigenes were confirmed by qRT-PCR. In addition, 35,054 simple sequence repeats were identified. By GO and KEGG analyses, a set of unigenes related to gonadal development and gametogenesis were filtered. foxl2 was deduced to be a key regulator for gonadal development and gametogenesis in females and dmrt1 in males. bmp15, nanos3, sox9 and amh were likely to function in the regulation of gonad physiology and germ line cells maintenance in ovary and testis. Interestingly, p53, apoptosis, Jak-STAT and neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction pathways were found to be pivotal in regulating gonadal development and gametogenesis of spotted knifejaw in various aspects. This study provides a fundamental support for further research in reproduction biology, population genetics and functional genomics in spotted knifejaw.
In this study, we investigated the involvement of ENPP1 polymorphisms in T2D. Methods The association of the two polymorphisms of ENPP1 (rs7754586 and rs55725924) with T2D and diabetes-related quantitative traits was analyzed in Chinese samples containing 929 T2D patients and 1044 healthy individuals. We also performed the expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analysis to study the association of both polymorphisms of ENPP1 with mRNA expression levels using the genotype-tissue expression database. Results The risk allele A of the polymorphism rs7754586 contributed to T2D (odds ratio: 1.252, 95% confidence interval: 1.044–1.615, P = 0.018). The polymorphism rs55725924 was associated with the diastolic blood pressure and cholesterol levels. Patients carrying high-risk haplotype A-T of rs7754586 and rs55725924 exhibited a high risk of acquiring T2D. These associations were only observed in males, but not in females. In addition, the eQTL analysis demonstrated that the risk allele of rs7754586 was associated with higher levels of ENPP1 mRNA expression. Conclusion Our findings suggest that the ENPP1 polymorphism rs7754586 may implicate in the pathogenesis of T2D in men, while polymorphism rs55725924 may be involved in diastolic blood pressure and cholesterol of male T2D patients.
Purpose: Daily modulation of gene expression is critical for the circadian rhythms of many organisms. One of the modulating mechanisms is based on nocturnin, a deadenylase that degrades mRNA in a circadian fashion. The nocturnin genes are expressed broadly, but their tissue expression patterns differ between mice and the frog Xenopus laevis; this difference suggests that the extent of the regulation of nocturin gene expression varies among species. In this study, we set out to characterize the expression patterns of two zebrafish nocturnin genes; in addition, we asked whether a frog nocturnin promoter has transcriptional activity in zebrafish. Methods: We used RT-PCR, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT)-PCR), and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) analysis to determine whether the nocturnin-a and nocturnin-b genes are expressed in the eye, in situ hybridization to determine the cellular expression pattern of the nocturnin-b gene in the retina, and confocal microscopy to determine the protein expression pattern of the transgenic reporter green fluorescent protein (GFdriven by the frog nocturnin promoter. Results: We found that the amino acid sequences of zebrafish noct reverse transcription (urnin-a and nocturnin-b are highly similar to those of frog, mouse, and human nocturnin homologs. Only nocturnin-b is expressed in the eye. Within the retina, nocturnin-b mRNA was expressed at higher levels in the retinal photoreceptors layer than in other cellular layers. This expression pattern echoes the restricted photoreceptor expression of nocturnin in the frog. We also found that the frog nocturnin promoter can be specifically activated in zebrafish rod photoreceptors. Conclusions: The high level of similarities in amino acid sequences of human, mouse, frog, and zebrafish nocturnin homologs suggest these proteins maintain a conserved deadenylation function that is important for regulating retinal circadian rhythmicity. The rod-specific transcriptional activity of the frog nocturnin promoter makes it a useful tool to drive moderate and rod-specific transgenic expression in zebrafish. The results of this study lay the groundwork to study nocturnin-based circadian biology of the zebrafish retina.
Acuticoccus yangtzensis JL1095T is a proteobacterium from a genus belonging to the family Rhodobacteraceae; it was isolated from surface waters of the Yangtze Estuary, China. This strain displays the capability to utilize aromatic and simple carbon compounds. Here, we present the genome sequence, annotations, and features of A. yangtzensis JL1095T. This strain has a genome size of 5,043,263 bp with a G + C content of 68.63%. The genome contains 4286 protein-coding genes, 56 RNA genes, and 83 pseudo genes. Many of the protein-coding genes were predicted to encode proteins involved in carbon metabolism pathways, such as aromatic degradation and methane metabolism. Notably, a total of 31 genes were predicted to encode form II carbon monoxide dehydrogenases, suggesting potential for carbon monoxide oxidation. The genome analysis helps better understand the major carbon metabolic pathways of this strain and its role in carbon cycling in coastal marine ecosystems.
Background: Juvenile hormones (JH) and ecdysteroids control postembryonic development in insects. They serve as valuable targets for pest management. Hence, understanding the molecular mechanisms of their action is of crucial importance. CREB-binding protein (CBP) is a universal transcriptional co-regulator. It controls the expression of several genes including those from hormone signaling pathways through co-activation of many transcription factors. However, the role of CBP during postembryonic development in insects is not well understood. Therefore, we have studied the role of CBP in postembryonic development in Tribolium, a model coleopteran insect. Results: CBP is ubiquitously expressed in the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum. RNA interference (RNAi) mediated knockdown of CBP resulted in a decrease in JH induction of Kr-h1 gene expression in Tribolium larvae and led to a block in their development. Moreover, the injection of CBP double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) showed lethal phenotypes within 8 days of injection. RNA-seq and subsequent differential gene expression analysis identified CBP target genes in Tribolium. Knockdown of CBP caused a decrease in the expression of 1306 genes coding for transcription factors and other proteins associated with growth and development. Depletion of CBP impaired the expression of several JH response genes (e.g., Kr-h1, Hairy, early trypsin) and ecdysone response genes (EcR, E74, E75, and broad complex). Further, GO enrichment analyses of the downregulated genes showed enrichment in different functions including developmental processes, pigmentation, anatomical structure development, regulation of biological and cellular processes, etc. Conclusion: These data suggest diverse but crucial roles for CBP during postembryonic development in the coleopteran model insect, Tribolium. It can serve as a target for RNAi mediated pest management of this stored product pest.
The new species Neodidymelliopsis farokhinejadii, sp. nov., is described and illustrated. This fungus was isolated from dead branches of Citrus spp., Conocarpus erectus, Cupressus sp., Eucalyptus sp., Juglans regia and Ziziphus sp. in southwestern Iran. Multi-locus DNA sequence based phylogeny, in combination with morphology, were used to characterize eight isolates of this species. Two phylogenetic trees were constructed on the basis of the combined sequences of internal transcribed spacer regions 1 & 2 and 5.8S nrDNA (ITS), partial large subunit 28S nrDNA (LSU-D1/D2), partial ^tubulin (tub2) and partial RNA polymerase II (rpb2). The morphological differences between the new and other previously known species of Neodidymelliopsis are strongly supported by the multi-locus phylogenetic analysis. In both three- And four- locus phylogenetic trees, the isolates of new species formed a strongly supported clade, which is distinct from other formerly described species.
Background: In our previous study, we revealed that MEG3 was a tumor suppressor gene in retinoblastoma and inhibited proliferation of retinoblastoma cells by regulating the activity of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Here, we further explored the mechanism of MEG3 inactivation in retinoblastoma. Methods: MSP and qRT-PCR were performed to detect the methylation status of MEG3 promoter and levels of MEG3 expression, respective. To further explore relationship between MEG3 expression and epigenetic modifications, 5-Aza-CdR was used to interfere with DNA methylation. In addition, we evaluated proliferation, apoptosis and the expression of β-catenin via CCK-8, flow cytometric analysis and western blot analysis, respective. Results: Hypermethylation of MEG3 promoter was observed more frequently in retinoblastoma tissues and was highly associated with low MEG3 expression and poor survival of retinoblastoma patients. We also provided evidence demonstrating that hypermethylation of MEG3 promoter depressed MEG3 expression, promoted proliferation, inhibited apoptosis and increased β-catenin expression of retinoblastoma cells in vitro. Conclusions: Our present study indicates that promoter silencing by hypermethylation may account for the loss of MEG3 expression and predict poor prognosis.
Previous disease classification approaches are clinically based and the ability of the diagnostic process is restricted. In recent days DNA/RNA microarray techniques can monitor more number of gene expression data. Using this ability the medical research people started exploring the various ways of classifying the disease from genetic data. All the methods are promising on producing results. Even though there are some issues which should be handled to improve the accuracy of classification. Classification of the disease depends on data clustering so that, this paper concentrates on clustering the data efficiently and mine for the more accurate pattern using Chronological Pattern Exploration (CPE) as an effective pattern matching approach. This CPE algorithm investigates the data by means of attributes, metadata and the meaning of the data to the search pattern. The simulation of this approach is carried out in MATLAB software to authenticate the efficiency.
Background: Breast cancer brain metastases (BCBM) develop in about 20-30% of breast cancer (BC) patients. BCBM are associated with dismal prognosis not at least due to lack of valuable molecular therapeutic targets. The aim of the study was to identify new molecular biomarkers and targets in BCBM by using complementary state-of-the-art techniques. Methods: We compared array expression profiles of three BCBM with 16 non-brain metastatic BC and 16 primary brain tumors (prBT) using a false discovery rate (FDR) p<0.05 and fold change (FC)>2. Biofunctional analysis was conducted on the differentially expressed probe sets. High-density arrays were employed to detect copy number variations (CNVs) and whole exome sequencing (WES) with paired-end reads of 150bp was utilized to detect gene mutations in the three BCBM. Results: The top 370 probe sets that were differentially expressed between BCBM and both BC and prBT were in the majority comparably overexpressed in BCBM and included, e.g. the coding genes BCL3, BNIP3, BNIP3P1, BRIP1, CASP14, CDC25A, DMBT1, IDH2, E2F1, MYCN, RAD51, RAD54L, and VDR. A number of small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) were comparably overexpressed in BCBM and included SNORA1, SNORA2A, SNORA9, SNORA10, SNORA22, SNORA24, SNORA30, SNORA37, SNORA38, SNORA52, SNORA71A, SNORA71B, SNORA71C, SNORD13P2, SNORD15A, SNORD34, SNORD35A, SNORD41, SNORD53, and SCARNA22. The top canonical pathway was entitled, role of BRCA1 in DNA damage response. Network analysis revealed key nodes as Akt, ERK1/2, NFkB, and Ras in a predicted activation stage. Downregulated genes in a data set that was shared between BCBM and prBT comprised, e.g. BC cell line invasion markers JUN, MMP3, TFF1, and HAS2. Important cancer genes affected by CNVs included TP53, BRCA1, BRCA2, ERBB2, IDH1, and IDH2. WES detected numerous mutations, some of which affecting BC associated genes as CDH1, HEPACAM, and LOXHD1. Conclusions: Using complementary molecular genetic techniques, this study identified shared and unshared molecular events in three highly aberrant BCBM emphasizing the challenge to detect new molecular biomarkers and targets with translational implications. Among new findings with the capacity to gain clinical relevance is the detection of overexpressed snoRNAs known to regulate some critical cellular functions as ribosome biogenesis.
Background: Small noncoding regulatory RNAs (sRNAs) are post-transcriptional regulators, regulating mRNAs, proteins, and DNA in bacteria. One class of sRNAs, trans-acting sRNAs, are the most abundant sRNAs transcribed from the intergenic regions (IGRs) of the bacterial genome. In Streptococcus pyogenes, a common and potentially deadly pathogen, many sRNAs have been identified, but only a few have been studied. The goal of this study is to identify trans-acting sRNAs that can be substrates of RNase III. The endoribonuclease RNase III cleaves double stranded RNAs, which can be formed during the interaction between an sRNA and target mRNAs. Results: For this study, we created an RNase III null mutant of Streptococcus pyogenes and its RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) data were analyzed and compared to that of the wild-type. First, we developed a custom script that can detect intergenic regions of the S. pyogenes genome. A differential expression analysis with Cufflinks and Stringtie was then performed to identify the intergenic regions whose expression was influenced by the RNase III gene deletion. Conclusion: This analysis yielded 12 differentially expressed regions with >|2| fold change and p≤0.05. Using Artemis and Bamview genome viewers, these regions were visually verified leaving 6 putative sRNAs. This study not only expanded our knowledge on novel sRNAs but would also give us new insight into sRNA degradation.
Antimicrobial peptides are short peptides secreted by the innate immune system to protect the host from pathogens. We have investigated the influence of the amino terminal copper and nickel binding (ATCUN) motif on derivatives of ovispirin-3 (OV-3), an α-helical peptide from the cathelicidin family, demonstrating an increased antimicrobial activity toward a broad range of bacteria, relative to OV-3, with MICs as low as 1.3 ± 0.6 μM. Each peptide was able to bind DNA and RNA with micromolar affinity, but did not display nuclease activity in vivo. The ATCUN OV-3 derivatives also displayed an increased membrane leakage and lipid peroxidation relative to Cu-GGH and OV-3 alone. These data suggest that the Cu-ATCUN derivatives inhibit bacteria by binding to the membrane, promoting oxidative damage of the lipids, which then disrupts the bilayer, resulting in cell death. This stands in contrast to the mode of action of OV-3 alone, which permeabilizes the membrane without lipid oxidation.
Background: Genotyping of large populations through genome-wide association studies (GWAS) has successfully identified many genomic variants associated with traits or disease risk. Unexpectedly, a large proportion of GWAS single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and associated haplotype blocks are in intronic and intergenic regions, hindering their functional evaluation. While some of these risk-susceptibility regions encompass cis-regulatory sites, their transcriptional potential has never been systematically explored. Results: To detect rare tissue-specific expression, we employed the transcript-enrichment method CaptureSeq on 21 human tissues to identify 1775 multi-exonic transcripts from 561 intronic and intergenic haploblocks associated with 392 traits and diseases, covering 73.9 Mb (2.2%) of the human genome. We show that a large proportion (85%) of disease-associated haploblocks express novel multi-exonic non-coding transcripts that are tissue-specific and enriched for GWAS SNPs as well as epigenetic markers of active transcription and enhancer activity. Similarly, we captured transcriptomes from 13 melanomas, targeting nine melanoma-associated haploblocks, and characterized 31 novel melanoma-specific transcripts that include fusion proteins, novel exons and non-coding RNAs, one-third of which showed allelically imbalanced expression. Conclusions: This resource of previously unreported transcripts in disease-associated regions ( http://gwas-captureseq.dingerlab.org ) should provide an important starting point for the translational community in search of novel biomarkers, disease mechanisms, and drug targets.
AIM To detect the distribution of intestinal flora between ulcerative colitis (UC) patients and normal controls by high-throughput sequencing to discover the genus structures related to the formation and development of UC. METHODS Chromosomal DNA was extracted from each sample, and the length of DNA fragment was detected and quantified. Gene amplification and sequencing of the V3 region of 16S rRNA were then performed. RESULTS The structure of intestinal flora in UC patients exhibited a significant decrease in the numbers of Bacteroidetes, Proteobacteria, and Firmicute, compared with that of healthy controls. There were significant differences (P < 0.05) in the mean abundance of 11 metabolic pathways between the two groups. CONCLUSION There is a strong correlation between the abnormal changes of the intestinal flora structure and the occurrence and development of UC. Multiple metabolic pathways are involved in the formation and development of UC. It is helpful to understand the molecular pathological basis of UC by analyzing the key structures of bacterial flora, which will provide a theoretical basis for the reasonable design of new drugs.
Background: The species relationships within the genus Linum have already been studied several times by means of different molecular and phylogenetic approaches. Nevertheless, a number of ambiguities in phylogeny of Linum still remain unresolved. In particular, the species relationships within the sections Stellerolinum and Dasylinum need further clarification. Also, the question of independence of the species of the section Adenolinum still remains unanswered. Moreover, the relationships of L. narbonense and other species of the section Linum require further clarification. Additionally, the origin of tetraploid species of the section Linum (2n = 30) including the cultivated species L. usitatissimum has not been explored. The present study examines the phylogeny of blue-flowered species of Linum by comparisons of 5S rRNA gene sequences as well as ITS1 and ITS2 sequences of 35S rRNA genes. Results: High-throughput sequencing has been used for analysis of multicopy rRNA gene families. In addition to the molecular phylogenetic analysis, the number and chromosomal localization of 5S and 35S rDNA sites has been determined by FISH. Our findings confirm that L. stelleroides forms a basal branch from the clade of blue-flowered flaxes which is independent of the branch formed by species of the sect. Dasylinum. The current molecular phylogenetic approaches, the cytogenetic analysis as well as different genomic DNA fingerprinting methods applied previously did not discriminate certain species within the sect. Adenolinum. The allotetraploid cultivated species L. usitatissimum and its wild ancestor L. angustifolium (2n = 30) could originate either as the result of hybridization of two diploid species (2n = 16) related to the modern L. gandiflorum and L. decumbens, or hybridization of a diploid species (2n = 16) and a diploid ancestor of modern L. narbonense (2n = 14). Conclusions: High-throughput sequencing of multicopy rRNA gene families allowed us to make several adjustments to the phylogeny of blue-flowered flax species and also reveal intra- and interspecific divergence of the rRNA gene sequences.
Background: Enhancers are modular regulatory elements that are central to the spatial and temporal regulation of gene expression. Bidirectional transcription initiating at enhancers has been proposed to mark active enhancers and as such has been utilized to experimentally identify active enhancers de novo. Results: Here, we show that bidirectional transcription initiation is a pervasive feature of accessible chromatin, including at enhancers, promoters, and other DNase hypersensitive regions not marked with canonical histone modification profiles. Transcription is less predictive for enhancer activity than epigenetic modifications such as H3K4me1 or the accessibility of DNA when measured both in enhancer assays and at endogenous loci. The stability of enhancer initiated transcripts does not influence measures of enhancer activity and we cannot detect evidence of purifying selection on the resulting enhancer RNAs within the human population. Conclusions: Our results indicate that bidirectional transcription initiation from accessible chromatin is not sufficient for, nor specific to, enhancer activity. Transcription initiating at enhancers may be a frequent by-product of promiscuous RNA polymerase initiation at accessible chromatin and is unlikely to generally play a functional role in enhancer activity.
Background: Mitochondria are the site of the citric acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). In metazoans, the mitochondrial genome is a small, circular molecule averaging 16.5 kb in length. Despite evolutionarily conserved gene content, metazoan mitochondrial genomes show a diversity of gene orders most commonly explained by the duplication-random loss (DRL) model. In the DRL model, (1) a sequence of genes is duplicated in tandem, (2) one paralog sustains a loss-of-function mutation, resulting in selection to retain the other copy, and (3) the non-functional paralog is eventually deleted from the genome. Despite its apparent role in generating mitochondrial gene order diversity, little is known about the tempo and mode of random gene loss after duplication events. Here, we determine mitochondrial gene order across the salamander genus Aneides, which was previously shown to include at least two DRL-mediated rearrangement events. We then analyze these gene orders in a phylogenetic context to reveal patterns of DNA loss after mitochondrial gene duplication. Results: We identified two separate duplication events that resulted in mitochondrial gene rearrangements in Aneides; one occurred at the base of the clade tens of millions of years ago, while the other occurred much more recently (i.e. within a single species), resulting in gene order polymorphism and paralogs that are readily identifiable. We demonstrate that near-complete removal of duplicate rRNA genes has occurred since the recent duplication event, whereas duplicate protein-coding genes persist as pseudogenes and duplicate tRNAs persist as functionally intact paralogs. In addition, we show that non-coding DNA duplicated at the base of the clade has persisted across species for tens of millions of years. Conclusions: The evolutionary history of the mitochondrial genome, from its inception as a bacterial endosymbiont, includes massive genomic reduction. Consistent with this overall trend, selection for efficiency of mitochondrial replication and transcription has been hypothesized to favor elimination of extra sequence. Our results, however, suggest that there may be no strong disadvantage to extraneous sequences in salamander mitochondrial genomes, although duplicate rRNA genes may be deleterious.
In this study, we identified (+)-(7′S,8S,8’S)-3′,4,4′,5,5′-pentamethoxy-2,7′-cyclolignan (SG-1), a cyclolignan semi-synthesized from Machilus robusta and M. wangchiana extracts, as a potent NNRTI. SG-1 displayed anti-HIV-1 activity with an IC50 of 0.77 μmol/L by inhibiting reverse transcriptase (RT) RNA-dependent DNA polymerase activity through a direct binding. It had synergistic effects when combined with tenofovir/lamivudine or zidovudine/lamivudine. The pharmacodynamics properties of SG-1 render it a valuable lead for the development of novel NNRTIs.
Although we have shown earlier that aldose reductase (AR) inhibitors prevent colorectal cancer cell (CRC) growth in culture as well as in nude mice xenografts, the mechanism(s) is not well understood. In this study, we have investigated how AR inhibition prevents CRC growth by regulating the mitochondrial biogenesis via Nrf2/HO-1 pathway. Incubation of CRC cells such as SW-480, HT29, and HCT116 with AR inhibitor, fidarestat that non-covalently binds to the enzyme, increases the expression of Nrf2. Further, fidarestat augmented the EGF-induced expression of Nrf2 in CRC cells. Fidarestat also increased the Nrf2 -DNA binding activity as well as expression of HO-1 and NQO1 and activation of SOD and catalase in SW480 cells. Similarly, in nude mice xenograft tumor tissues, Nrf2 and HO-1 levels were significantly higher in fidarestat-treated mice compared to controls. Further, stimulation of CRC cells with EGF in the presence of fidarestat increased the mRNA levels of PGC-1α, Nrf1 and TFAM and protein levels of PGC-1α, TFAM and COX-IV and decreased the mitochondrial DNA damage as measured by 8-hydroxy-2′-deoxyguanosine levels. AR inhibitor also modulated the phosphorylations of AMPK and mTOR and expression of p53 in EGF-treated cells. Collectively, our results indicate that AR inhibitor prevents CRC growth by increasing mitochondrial biogenesis via increasing the expression of Nrf2/HO-1/AMPK/p53 and decreasing the mitochondrial DNA damage.
Background: Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a highly progressive inflammatory disease that requires the interaction of epithelial, immune, endothelial and muscle cells and fibroblasts. Previous studies suggested two inflammatory conditions in UC-patients: 'acute' and 'remodeling' and that the design of a disease network might improve the understanding of the inflammatory processes. The objective of the study was to design and validate a disease network in the NOD-SCID IL2rγnull (NSG)-UC mouse model to get a better understanding of the inflammatory processes. Methods: Leukocytes were isolated from the spleen of NSG-UC mice and subjected to flow cytometric analysis. RT-PCR and RNAseq analysis were performed from distal parts of the colon. Based on these analyses and the effects of interleukins, chemokines and growth factors described in the literature, a disease network was designed. To validate the disease network the effect of infliximab and pitrakinra was tested in the NSG-UC model. A clinical- and histological score, frequencies of human leukocytes isolated from spleen and mRNA expression levels from distal parts of the colon were determined. Results: Analysis of leukocytes isolated from the spleen of challenged NSG-UC mice corroborated CD64, CD163 and CD1a expressing CD14+ monocytes, CD1a expressing CD11b+ macrophages and HGF, TARC, IFNγ and TGFß1 mRNA as inflammatory markers. The disease network suggested that a proinflammatory condition elicited by IL-17c and lipids and relayed by cytotoxic T-cells, Th17 cells and CD1a expressing macrophages and monocytes. Conversely, the remodeling condition was evoked by IL-34 and TARC and promoted by Th2 cells and M2 monocytes. Mice benefitted from treatment with infliximab as indicated by the histological- and clinical score. As predicted by the disease network infliximab reduced the proinflammatory response by suppressing M1 monocytes and CD1a expressing monocytes and macrophages and decreased levels of IFNγ, TARC and HGF mRNA. As predicted by the disease network inflammation aggravated in the presence of pitrakinra as indicated by the clinical and histological score, elevated frequencies of CD1a expressing macrophages and TNFα and IFNγ mRNA levels. Conclusions: The combination of the disease network and the NSG-UC animal model might be developed into a powerful tool to predict efficacy or in-efficacy and potential mechanistic side effects.
Background: Copy Number Variation (CNV) of the human CNTN6 gene (encoding the contactin-6 protein), caused by deletions or duplications, is responsible for severe neurodevelopmental impairments, often in combination with facial dysmorphias. Conversely, deleterious point mutations of this gene do not show any clinical phenotypes. The aim of this study is to generate mice carrying large deletions, duplications and inversions involving the Cntn6 gene as a new experimental model to study CNV of the human CNTN6 locus. Results: To generate large chromosomal rearrangements on mouse chromosome 6, we applied CRISPR/Cas9 technology in zygotes. Two guide RNAs (gRNAs) (flanking a DNA fragment of 1137 Mb) together with Cas9 mRNA and single-stranded DNA oligonucleotides (ssODN) were microinjected into the cytoplasm of 599 zygotes of F1 (C57BL x CBA) mice, and 256 of them were transplanted into oviducts of CD-1 females. As a result, we observed the birth of 41 viable F0 offspring. Genotyping of these mice was performed by PCR analysis and sequencing of PCR products. Among the 41 F0 offspring, we identified seven mice with deletions, two animals carrying duplications of the gene and four carrying inversions. Interestingly, two F0 offspring had both deletions and duplications. It is important to note that while three of seven deletion carriers showed expected sequences at the new joint sites, in another three, we identified an absence of 1-10 nucleotides at the CRISPR/Cas9 cut sites, and in one animal, 103 bp were missing, presumably due to error-prone non-homologous end joining. In addition, we detected the absence of 5 and 13 nucleotides at these sites in two F0 duplication carriers. Similar sequence changes at CRISPR/Cas9 cut sites were observed at the right and left boundaries of inversions. Thus, megabase-scale deletions, duplications and inversions were identified in 11 F0 offspring among 41 analyzed, i.e., approximately 25% efficiency. All genetically modified F0 offspring were viable and able to transmit these large chromosomal rearrangements to the next generation. Conclusions: Using CRISPR/Cas9 technology, we created mice carrying megabase-scale deletions, duplications, and inversions involving the full-sized Cntn6 gene. These mice became founders of new mouse lines, which may be more appropriate experimental models of CNV in the human 3p26.3 region than Cntn6 knockout mice.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are neurodegenerative disorders that share genetic risk factors and pathological hallmarks. Intriguingly, these shared factors result in a high rate of comorbidity of these diseases in patients. Intracellular protein aggregates are a common pathological hallmark of both diseases. Emerging evidence suggests that impaired RNA processing and disrupted protein homeostasis are two major pathogenic pathways for these diseases. Indeed, recent evidence from genetic and cellular studies of the etiology and pathogenesis of ALS-FTD has suggested that defects in autophagy may underlie various aspects of these diseases. In this review, we discuss the link between genetic mutations, autophagy dysfunction, and the pathogenesis of ALS-FTD. Although dysfunction in a variety of cellular pathways can lead to these diseases, we provide evidence that ALS-FTD is, in many cases, an autophagy disease.
Background: Cell division (mitosis) results in the equal segregation of chromosomes between two daughter cells. The mitotic spindle plays a pivotal role in chromosome alignment and segregation during metaphase and anaphase. Structural or functional errors of this spindle can cause aneuploidy, a hallmark of many cancers. To investigate if a given protein associates with the mitotic spindle and regulates its assembly, stability, or function, fluorescence microscopy can be performed to determine if disruption of that protein induces phenotypes indicative of spindle dysfunction. Importantly, functional disruption of proteins with specific roles during mitosis can lead to cancer cell death by inducing mitotic insult. However, there is a lack of automated computational tools to detect and quantify the effects of such disruption on spindle integrity. Results: We developed the image analysis software tool MatQuantify, which detects both large-scale and subtle structural changes in the spindle or DNA and can be used to statistically compare the effects of different treatments. MatQuantify can quantify various physical properties extracted from fluorescence microscopy images, such as area, lengths of various components, perimeter, eccentricity, fractal dimension, satellite objects and orientation. It can also measure textual properties including entropy, intensities and the standard deviation of intensities. Using MatQuantify, we studied the effect of knocking down the protein clathrin heavy chain (CHC) on the mitotic spindle. We analysed 217 microscopy images of untreated metaphase cells, 172 images of metaphase cells transfected with small interfering RNAs targeting the luciferase gene (as a negative control), and 230 images of metaphase cells depleted of CHC. Using the quantified data, we trained 23 supervised machine learning classification algorithms. The Support Vector Machine learning algorithm was the most accurate method (accuracy: 85.1%; area under the curve: 0.92) for classifying a spindle image. The Kruskal-Wallis and Tukey-Kramer tests demonstrated that solidity, compactness, eccentricity, extent, mean intensity and number of satellite objects (multipolar spindles) significantly differed between CHC-depleted cells and untreated/luciferase-knockdown cells. Conclusion: MatQuantify enables automated quantitative analysis of images of mitotic spindles. Using this tool, researchers can unambiguously test if disruption of a protein-of-interest changes metaphase spindle maintenance and thereby affects mitosis.
Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. AIM To investigated the mechanism of the association between the TBX21 T-1993C promoter polymorphism and autoimmune hepatitis type 1 (AIH-1) development. METHODS In vivo, In vivo, and reporter analyses were performed to determine the function of transcription factors binding to the T-1993C element of the TBX21 promoter in human CD4+ T and B cell lines. Flow cytometry and quantitative real-time PCR were used to analyze T-box transcription factor (T-bet) and interferon-? (IFN-?) expressions in CD4+ T cells, B cells and monocytes from the peripheral blood of AIH-1 patients including 5-1993TC and 15-1993TT genotype carriers, and healthy controls including 10-1993TC and 25-1993TT genotype carriers. Furthermore, a range of biochemical indices was measured simultaneously in the blood of AIH-1 patients. RESULTS TBX21-1993C allele created a strong Yin-Yang 1 (YY1)-binding site and decreased transcriptional activity of TBX21 promoter in human CD4+ T and B cells. Higher levels of T-bet and IFN-? were detected in the circulating CD4+ T cells and B cells of AIH-1 patients carrying the TBX21-1993 TT genotype compared with the patients carrying the -1993 TC genotype and controls with the -1993 TC genotype. T-bet expression levels of circulating T cells and B cells were positively correlated with AIH-1 disease activity. Knockdown of YY1 with siRNA caused increased expression of T-bet and IFN-? in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in AIH-1 patients. CONCLUSION The repression of TBX21 expression by high-affinity binding of YY1 to the -1993C allele may contribute to a decreased development of AIH-1 via suppression of type 1 immunity.
Background: In recent years, the concern of Acanthamoeba keratitis has increased since the infection is often associated with contact lens use. Partial 18S rRNA genotypic identification of Acanthamoeba isolates is important to correlate with pathophysiological properties in order to evaluate the degree of virulence. This is the first report of genotypic identification for clinical isolates of Acanthamoeba from corneal scrapings of keratitis in Malaysia. This study is also the first to correlate the mRNA expression of MBP and AhLBP as virulent markers for axenic strains of Acanthamoeba. Results: In this study, ten clinical isolates were obtained from corneal scrapings. Rns genotype and intra-genotypic variation at the DF3 region of the isolates were identified. Results revealed that all clinical isolates belonged to the T4 genotype, with T4/6 (4 isolates), T4/2 (3 isolates), T4/16 (2 isolates) and one new genotype T4 sequence (T4/36), being determined. The axenic clinical isolates were cytopathogenic to rabbit corneal fibroblasts. MBP and AhLBP mRNA expression are directly correlated to Acanthamoeba cytopathic effect. Conclusions: All ten Malaysian clinical isolates were identified as genotype T4 which is predominantly associated with AK. Measuring the mRNA expression of Acanthamoeba virulent markers could be useful in the understanding of the pathogenesis of Acanthamoeba keratitis.
Effective and sensitive microRNA detection is a great challenge. Most microRNA assays use an amplification strategy to obtain high sensitivity, which makes them complicated. Herein, we present a simple and amplification-free solid-state electrochemiluminescence (ECL) biosensor for the detection of miRNA based on high effective quenching by ferrocene and using N-butyldiethanolamine (BDEA) as a more effective co-reactant. Initially, the mixture of Nafion and Au nanoparticles (AuNPs) was cast onto the glassy carbon electrode (GCE) to form a Nafion-AuNPs film. The resulting electrode was then immersed into a solution of Ru(bpy)3 2+, where the solid-state Nafion-AuNPs/Ru(bpy)3 2+ could be obtained via electrostatic adsorption. The DNA molecular beacon, which was modified with thiol at one distal and the other was labeled with ferrocene (i.e., Fc-MB), was covalently attached to AuNPs on the ECL film through a Au-S bond. Afterwards, the remaining active sites of nonspecific adsorption were blocked with 6-mercapto-1-hexanol (MCH). When the target miRNA was present, it hybridized with the complementary part in the loop of Fc-MB and formed a double-stranded structure. This conformational change led the quencher away from the electrode, resulting in a remarkable increase in ECL intensity. Under the optimum condition, the ECL signal had a linear relationship with miRNA concentration ranging from 0.01 pM to 1 × 103 pM, with a limit of detection of 10 fM. Moreover, our biosensor showed remarkable specificity, outstanding reproducibility, good stability and excellent performance in real sample investigation with no amplification. Therefore, this developed strategy has great potential in early miRNA-related cancer diagnosis.
Background: A wide range of studies has investigated the diagnostic proficiency of extracellular microRNAs (miRNAs) in hepatocellular cancer (HCC). HCC is expected to increase in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), due to endemic levels of viral infection (HBV/HIV), ageing and changing lifestyles. This unique aetiological background provides an opportunity for investigating potentially novel circulating miRNAs as biomarkers for HCC in a prospective study in South Africa. Methods: This study will recruit HCC patients from two South African cancer hospitals, situated in Durban and Pietermaritzburg in the province of KwaZulu-Natal. These cases will include both HBV mono-infected and HBV/HIV co-infected HCC cases. The control group will consist of two (2) age and sex-matched healthy population controls per HCC case randomly selected from a Durban based laboratory. The controls will exclude patients if they have any evidence of chronic liver disease. A standardised reporting approach will be adopted to detect, quantify and normalize the level of circulating miRNAs in the blood sera of HCC cases and their controls. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) will be employed to quantity extracellular miRNAs. Differences in concentration of relevant miRNA by case/control status will be assessed using the Wilcoxon rank-sum (Mann-Whitney U) test. Adjustment for multiple testing (Bonferroni correction), receiver operating curves (ROC) and optimal breakpoint analyses will be employed to identify potential thresholds for the differentiation of miRNA levels of HCC cases and their controls. Discussion: Although there is a growing base of literature regarding the role of circulating miRNAs as biomarkers, this promising field remains a 'work in progress'. The aetiology of HBV infection in HCC is well understood, as well as it's role in miRNA deregulation, however, the mediating role of HIV infection is unknown. HCC incidence in SSA, including South Africa, is expected to increase significantly in the next decade. A combination of factors, therefore, offers a unique opportunity to identify candidate circulating miRNAs as potential biomarkers for HBV/HIV infected HCC.
Background: Computational scanning of peptide candidates that bind to a specific major histocompatibility complex (MHC) can speed up the peptide-based vaccine development process and therefore various methods are being actively developed. Recently, machine-learning-based methods have generated successful results by training large amounts of experimental data. However, many machine learning-based methods are generally less sensitive in recognizing locally-clustered interactions, which can synergistically stabilize peptide binding. Deep convolutional neural network (DCNN) is a deep learning method inspired by visual recognition process of animal brain and it is known to be able to capture meaningful local patterns from 2D images. Once the peptide-MHC interactions can be encoded into image-like array(ILA) data, DCNN can be employed to build a predictive model for peptide-MHC binding prediction. In this study, we demonstrated that DCNN is able to not only reliably predict peptide-MHC binding, but also sensitively detect locally-clustered interactions. Results: Nonapeptide-HLA-A and -B binding data were encoded into ILA data. A DCNN, as a pan-specific prediction model, was trained on the ILA data. The DCNN showed higher performance than other prediction tools for the latest benchmark datasets, which consist of 43 datasets for 15 HLA-A alleles and 25 datasets for 10 HLA-B alleles. In particular, the DCNN outperformed other tools for alleles belonging to the HLA-A3 supertype. The F1 scores of the DCNN were 0.86, 0.94, and 0.67 for HLA-A*31:01, HLA-A*03:01, and HLA-A*68:01 alleles, respectively, which were significantly higher than those of other tools. We found that the DCNN was able to recognize locally-clustered interactions that could synergistically stabilize peptide binding. We developed ConvMHC, a web server to provide user-friendly web interfaces for peptide-MHC class I binding predictions using the DCNN. ConvMHC web server can be accessible via http://jumong.kaist.ac.kr:8080/convmhc. Conclusions: We developed a novel method for peptide-HLA-I binding predictions using DCNN trained on ILA data that encode peptide binding data and demonstrated the reliable performance of the DCNN in nonapeptide binding predictions through the independent evaluation on the latest IEDB benchmark datasets. Our approaches can be applied to characterize locally-clustered patterns in molecular interactions, such as protein/DNA, protein/RNA, and drug/protein interactions.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA or we) is classifying the reagents for molecular diagnostic instrument test systems into class I (general controls). We are taking this action because we have determined that classifying the device into class I (general controls) will provide a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness of the device. We believe this action will also enhance patients' access to beneficial innovative devices, in part by reducing regulatory burdens.
Here, we analyze CTCF chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing, RNA sequencing, and Hi-C data, together with genotypes from a healthy human cohort, and measure statistical associations between inter-individual variability in CTCF binding and alternative exon usage. We demonstrate that CTCF-mediated chromatin loops between promoters and intragenic regions are prevalent and that when exons are in physical proximity with their promoters, CTCF binding correlates with exon inclusion in spliced mRNA. Genome-wide, CTCF-bound exons are enriched for genes involved in signaling and cellular stress-response pathways. Structural analysis of three specific examples, checkpoint kinase 2 (CHK2), CDC-like kinase 3 (CLK3), and euchromatic histone-lysine N-methyltransferase (EHMT1), suggests that CTCF-mediated exon inclusion is likely to downregulate enzyme activity by disrupting annotated protein domains. In total, our study suggests that alternative exon usage is regulated by CTCF-dependent chromatin structure. The presence of CTCF-mediated intragenic chromatin loops regulates alternative splicing; this, in turn, may impact cellular decision making.
As a small catalytic DNA molecule, 10-23 DNAzyme has cleavage ability against complementary RNA. Previous studies of chemical modification have shown that its catalytic core can be further optimized in order to obtain more powerful catalytic ability. The analogues of 2'-deoxyadenosine (5) and 2'-deoxyguanosine (6) could improve the cleavage ability of the DNAzyme when positioned at positions A9, G2 and G14 in the catalytic core, respectively. Moreover, their combinatorial incorporations were studied, the results implicated that the effect was position-dependent, and positive additive results could be achieved at some positions. The highly conserved G1, G2 and G14 could be optimized by single or combinatorial modification with 2'-deoxyguanosine analogues. Chemical modifications on the functional groups of the core residues would be a feasible approach for the optimization of 10-23 DNAzyme.
In the presence of divalent metal ions, Cas9 and Cas12a (formerly Cpf1) proteins target and cleave DNA that is complementary to a cognate guide RNA. The recognition of a protospacer adjacent motif (PAM) sequence in the target DNA by Cas9 and Cas12a is essential for cleavage. This RNA-guided DNA targeting is widely used for gene-editing methods. Here, we show that Francisella tularensis novicida (Fno) Cas12a, FnoCas9, and Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9 (SpyCas9) cleave DNA without a guide RNA in the presence of Mn2+ ions. Substrate requirements for the RNA-independent activity vary. FnoCas9 preferentially nicks double-stranded plasmid, SpyCas9 degrades single-stranded plasmid, and FnoCas12a cleaves both substrates. These observations suggest that the identities and levels of intracellular metals, along with the Cas9/Cas12a ortholog employed, could have significant impacts in genome editing applications. CRISPR-mediated gene editing involves DNA targeting using complementary guide RNAs (gRNAs). Sundaresan et al. find that Cas9/Cas12a orthologs cause RNA-independent, non-sequence-specific DNA cleavage in the presence of Mn2+ ions. These observations suggest that the type of Cas9/Cas12a and levels of intracellular metal ions may affect CRISPR-based genome editing.
The central component of these systems are surveillance complexes that use guide RNAs to bind specific regions of foreign nucleic acids, marking them for destruction. Surveillance complexes must locate targets rapidly to ensure timely immune response, but the mechanism of this search process remains unclear. Here, we used single-molecule FRET to visualize how the type I-E surveillance complex Cascade searches DNA in real time. Cascade rapidly and randomly samples DNA through nonspecific electrostatic contacts, pausing at short PAM recognition sites that may be adjacent to the target. We identify Cascade motifs that are essential for either nonspecific sampling or positioning and readout of the PAM. Our findings provide a comprehensive structural and kinetic model for the Cascade target-search mechanism, revealing how CRISPR surveillance complexes can rapidly search large amounts of genetic material en route to target recognition. Xue et al. show that the Cascade surveillance complex rapidly and randomly samples DNA through nonspecific electrostatic contacts, pausing at PAM sites that may be adjacent to the target. They identify three Cascade motifs that are essential for this process and together enable efficient target recognition and immune response.
Patient-specific pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) can be generated via nuclear reprogramming by transcription factors (i.e., induced pluripotent stem cells, iPSCs) or by somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT). However, abnormalities and preclinical application of differentiated cells generated by different reprogramming mechanisms have yet to be evaluated. Here we investigated the molecular and functional features, and drug response of cardiomyocytes (PSC-CMs) and endothelial cells (PSC-ECs) derived from genetically relevant sets of human iPSCs, SCNT-derived embryonic stem cells (nt-ESCs), as well as in vitro fertilization embryo-derived ESCs (IVF-ESCs). We found that differentiated cells derived from isogenic iPSCs and nt- ESCs showed comparable lineage gene expression, cellular heterogeneity, physiological properties, and metabolic functions. Genomewide transcriptome and DNA methylome analysis indicated that iPSC derivatives (iPSC-CMs and iPSC-ECs) were more similar to isogenic nt-ESC counterparts than those derived from IVF-ESCs. Although iPSCs and nt-ESCs shared the same nuclear DNA and yet carried different sources of mitochondrial DNA, CMs derived from iPSC and nt-ESCs could both recapitulate doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity and exhibited insignificant differences on reactive oxygen species generation in response to stress condition.We conclude that molecular and functional characteristics of differentiated cells from human PSCs are primarily attributed to the genetic compositions rather than the reprogramming mechanisms (SCNT vs. iPSCs). Therefore, human iPSCs can replace nt-ESCs as alternatives for generating patient-specific differentiated cells for disease modeling and preclinical drug testing.
The neurodegenerative disorder Huntington's disease (HD) is typically characterized by extensive loss of striatal neurons and the midlife onset of debilitating and progressive chorea, dementia, and psychological disturbance. HD is caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the Huntingtin (HTT) gene, translating to an elongated glutamine tract in the huntingtin protein. The pathogenic mechanism resulting in cell dysfunction and death beyond the causative mutation is not well defined. To further delineate the early molecular events in HD, we performed RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) on striatal tissue from a cohort of 5-y-old OVT73-line sheep expressing a human CAG-expansion HTT cDNA transgene. Our HD OVT73 sheep are a prodromal model and exhibit minimal pathology and no detectable neuronal loss. We identified significantly increased levels of the urea transporter SLC14A1 in the OVT73 striatum, along with other important osmotic regulators. Further investigation revealed elevated levels of the metabolite urea in the OVT73 striatum and cerebellum, consistent with our recently published observation of increased urea in postmortem human brain from HD cases. Extending that finding, we demonstrate that postmortem human brain urea levels are elevated in a larger cohort of HD cases, including those with low-level neuropathology (Vonsattel grade 0/1). This elevation indicates increased protein catabolism, possibly as an alternate energy source given the generalized metabolic defect in HD. Increased urea and ammonia levels due to dysregulation of the urea cycle are known to cause neurologic impairment. Taken together, our findings indicate that aberrant urea metabolism could be the primary biochemical disruption initiating neuropathogenesis in HD.
The Warburg effect, characterized by increased glucose uptake and lactate production, is a well-known universal across cancer cells and other proliferating cells. PKM2, a splice isoformof the pyruvate kinase (PK) specifically expressed in these cells, serves as a major regulator of this metabolic reprogramming with an adjustable activity subjected to numerous allosteric effectors and posttranslational modifications. Here, we have identified a posttranslational modification on PKM2, O-GlcNAcylation, which specifically targets Thr405 and Ser406, residues of the region encoded by the alternatively spliced exon 10 in cancer cells. We show that PKM2 O-GlcNAcylation is up-regulated in various types of human tumor cells and patient tumor tissues. Themodification destabilized the active tetrameric PKM2, reduced PK activity, and led to nuclear translocation of PKM2.We also observed that the modification was associated with an increased glucose consumption and lactate production and enhanced level of lipid and DNA synthesis, indicating that O-GlcNAcylation promotes the Warburg effect. In vivo experiments showed that blocking PKM2 O-GlcNAcylation attenuated tumor growth. Thus, we demonstrate that O-GlcNAcylation is a regulatory mechanism for PKM2 in cancer cells and serves as a bridge between PKM2 and metabolic reprogramming typical of the Warburg effect.
Aim: The aim of this study was to isolate and identify a cellulolytic bacterium from the rumen fluid of Aceh's cattle. Biodegradation by cellulolytic rumen bacteria can be used as a source of cellulolytic bacteria that act to degrade feed fibrous material so as to improve the quality of nutrients and digestibility of feed ingredients at a cheaper price than the use of commercial cellulase enzymes. Materials and Methods: Samples were collected from rumen fluid of Aceh's cattle in Abattoirs (RPH) of Banda Aceh city, Indonesia, isolation, and screening of cellulolytic bacteria were done in Microbiology Laboratory, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Syiah Kuala University, Banda Aceh, Indonesia. Results: The S1 isolates showed ±2.5 cm of clear zone diameter. Microscopically, this strain was found to be a Gramnegative, Bacillus. Homology and phylogenetic tree analysis of 16S rRNA showed that S1 isolate has 91% of sequence similarity with that of Enterobacter cloacae. 91% sequence homology shown in this study proved that the S1 isolate is probably either a new species or another genus of Enterobacteriaceae. Conclusion: Current study suggests that cellulose hydrolytic bacteria isolated from rumen fluid of Aceh cattle on Bushnell Haas medium-carboxymethylcellulose agar, and some potent cellulose degrading bacteria have been identified.
The CRISPR-Cas9 nuclease system holds enormous potential for therapeutic genome editing of a wide spectrum of diseases. Large efforts have been made to further understanding of on- and offtarget activity to assist the design of CRISPR-based therapies with optimized efficacy and safety. However, current efforts have largely focused on the reference genome or the genome of cell lines to evaluate guide RNA (gRNA) efficiency, safety, and toxicity. Here, we examine the effect of human genetic variation on both onand off-target specificity. Specifically, we utilize 7,444 whole-genome sequences to examine the effect of variants on the targeting specificity of ∼3,000 gRNAs across 30 therapeutically implicated loci. We demonstrate that human genetic variation can alter the off-target landscape genome-wide including creating and destroying protospacer adjacent motifs (PAMs). Furthermore, single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and insertions/deletions (indels) can result in altered on-target sites and novel potent off-target sites,which can predispose patients to treatment failure and adverse effects, respectively; however, these events are rare. Taken together, these data highlight the importance of considering individual genomes for therapeutic genome-editing applications for the design and evaluation of CRISPR-based therapies to minimize risk of treatment failure and/or adverse outcomes.
Large, multidimensional cancer datasets provide a resource that can be mined to identify candidate therapeutic targets for specific subgroups of tumors. Here, we analyzed human breast cancer data to identify transcriptional programs associated with tumors bearing specific genetic driver alterations. Using an unbiased approach, we identified thousands of genes whose expression was enriched in tumors with specific genetic alterations. However, expression of the vast majority of these genes was not enriched if associations were analyzed within individual breast tumor molecular subtypes, across multiple tumor types, or after gene expression was normalized to account for differences in proliferation or tumor lineage. Together with linear modeling results, these findings suggest that most transcriptional programs associated with specific genetic alterations in oncogenes and tumor suppressors are highly context-dependent and are predominantly linked to differences in proliferation programs between distinct breast cancer subtypes. We demonstrate that such proliferation-dependent gene expression dominates tumor transcriptional programs relative to matched normal tissues. However, we also identified a relatively small group of cancer-associated genes that are both proliferation- and lineage-independent. A subset of these genes are attractive candidate targets for combination therapy because they are essential in breast cancer cell lines, druggable, enriched in stem-like breast cancer cells, and resistant to chemotherapy-induced down-regulation.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), the deadliest form of this disease, lacks a targeted therapy. TNBC tumors that fail to respond to chemotherapy are characterized by a repressed IFN/signal transducer and activator of transcription (IFN/STAT) gene signature and are often enriched for cancer stem cells (CSCs). We have found that human mammary epithelial cells that undergo an epithelial-tomesenchymal transition (EMT) following transformation acquire CSC properties. These mesenchymal/CSCs have a significantly repressed IFN/STAT gene expression signature and an enhanced ability to migrate and form tumor spheres. Treatment with IFN-beta (IFN-β) led to a less aggressive epithelial/non-CSC-like state, with repressed expression of mesenchymal proteins (VIMENTIN, SLUG), reduced migration and tumor sphere formation, and reexpression of CD24 (a surface marker for non-CSCs), concomitant with an epithelium-like morphology. The CSC-like properties were correlated with high levels of unphosphorylated IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 (U-ISGF3), which was previously linked to resistance to DNA damage. Inhibiting the expression of IRF9 (the DNA-binding component of U-ISGF3) reduced the migration of mesenchymal/CSCs. Here we report a positive translational role for IFN-β, as gene expression profiling of patient-derived TNBC tumors demonstrates that an IFN-β metagene signature correlates with improved patient survival, an immune response linked with tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), and a repressed CSC metagene signature. Taken together, our findings indicate that repressed IFN signaling in TNBCs with CSC-like properties is due to high levels of U-ISGF3 and that treatment with IFN-β reduces CSC properties, suggesting a therapeutic strategy to treat drug-resistant, highly aggressive TNBC tumors.
Various nucleic acid nanostructures have been proposed to achieve this goal, however many of them required potent ligands for the intracellular delivery of siRNA. Among various ligands, aptamers received much interest due to their facile preparation process as well as a high binding affinity toward target receptors. In addition, nucleic acid based aptamers can be easily incorporated with various nucleic acid nanostructures through a simple base-pair hybridization. In this study, aptamer incorporated siRNA (Apt-siRNA) was self-assembled with DNA Holliday junction for enhancing targeted delivery of siRNA to the Mucin 1 (MUC1) overexpressing cancer cells. Molecularly self-assembled Holliday DNA junction with Apt-siRNA was analyzed to confirm their cellular uptake and gene silencing as compared to the Apt-siRNA alone in the GFP expressing KB cells. The multivalent Apt-siRNA DNA nanostructure (Holliday-Apt-siRNA) clearly showed their superior potency over the Apt-siRNA alone suggesting their use in carrier-free siRNA delivery systems.
Ochratoxin A (OTA) as a fungal metabolite is reported to induce cytotoxicity and apoptosis through the mechanism of oxidative stress. Oxidative stress could induce the epigenetic enzymes modifications. However, whether epigenetic enzymes modifications are involved in OTA-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis has not been reported until now. Therefore, the objectives of this study were to verify OTA-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis and to investigate the potential role of epigenetic enzymes in OTA-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis in PK15 cells. The results demonstrated that OTA at 4 μg/ml treatment for 12 h and 24 h induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis as demonstrated by decreasing cell viability, increasing LDH release, Annexin V/PI staining, Bcl-2/Bax mRNA ratio and apoptotic nuclei in PK15 cells. OTA treatment up-regulated ROS production and down-regulated GSH levels. In addition, OTA treatment activated the epigenetics related enzymes DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) and Histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1). Adding DNMT1 inhibitor (5-Aza-2dc) or HDAC1 inhibitor (LBH589) depressed the up-regulation of DNMT1 or HDAC1 expression, the decreases of GSH levels and increases of ROS production induced by OTA, respectively. Furthermore, inhibition of DNMT1 or HDAC1 by their inhibitor reversed the decreases of cell viability and increases of LDH activity and apoptosis induced by OTA, respectively. In conclusion, the observed effects indicate that the critical modulation of DNMT1 and HDAC1 is related to OTA-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis.
In order to understand the evolution characteristics of miR166 gene family and its expression pattern in different tissues of Dimocarpus longan,we analyzed the mature sequences,and the phylogenetic of miR166 in longan and some other fruit plants,predicted the secondary structure of precursor miR166(pre-miR166)family members,analyzed their targets,as well as their expression patterns. The results showed that the longan miR166 family contained 12 mature sequences and 7 precursor sequences. Mfold analysis showed that these pre-miR166 members could form a typical stable stem loop structures,and their minimal folding free energies(ΔG)ranged from-35.30 to-83.30 kal · mol-1. Multiple sequence alignment of these pre-miR166 members showed that the regions generating mature miRNA were highly conservative. Phylogenetic tree analysis showed that the genetic relationship of pre-miR166 family in longan was closer to those from grape and peach. Target gene prediction of longan miR166 family revealed that their targets were homeobox-leucine zipper protein,pentatricopeptide repeat-containing protein, hypothetical protein ,DNA-directed RNA polymerase ? subunit , and Ultraviolet-B receptor UVR8. Real-Time quantitative PCR showed that diffierent pre-miR166 family members,had different expression patterns,and more or less expressed at different development stages on vegetative and reproductive growth of longan,suggesting that they may be widely participate in the regulation of longan organs development,and may have function division in longan.
Much research has focused on vertebrate thyroid hormone (TH) synthesis and their function in development and metabolism. While important differences in TH synthesis and signaling exist, comparative studies between vertebrates fail to explain the evolutionary origins of this important regulatory axis. For that, one needs to make sense out of the diverse TH effects which have been described in invertebrate phyla but for which a mechanistic understanding is largely missing. Almost every major group of non-vertebrate animals possesses the capability to synthesize and metabolize thyroid hormones and there is evidence for a nuclear thyroid hormone receptor mediated mechanism in the bilateria, especially in molluscs, echinoderms, cephalochordates and ascidians. Still, genomic pathways cannot fully explain many observed effects of thyroid hormones in groups such as cnidarians, molluscs, and echinoderms and it is therefore possible that TH may signal via other mechanisms, such as non-genomic signaling systems via membrane bound or cytoplasmic receptors. Here we provide a brief review of TH actions in selected invertebrate species and discuss the hypothesis that non-genomic TH action may have played a critical role in TH signaling throughout animal evolution.
In this article, we describe the applicability of a signal processing method, specifically the modified S-transform (MST) method, on RNA sequences to identify periodicities between 2 and 11. MicroRNAs (miRNA) are associated with gene regulation and gene silencing and thus have wide applications in biological sciences. Also, the functionality of miRNA is highly associated with its secondary structures (stem, bulge and loop). Signal processing methods have been previously applied on genomic data to reveal the periodicities that determine a wide variety of biological functions, ranging from exon detection to microsatellite identification in DNA sequences. However, there has been less focus on RNA-based signal processing. Here, we show that the signal processing method can be successfully applied to miRNA sequences. We observed that these periodicities are highly correlated with the secondary structure of miRNA and such methods could possibly be used as indicators of secondary and tertiary structure formation.
Background: As microbial cultures are comprised of heterogeneous cells that differ according to their size and intracellular concentrations of DNA, proteins, and other constituents, the detailed identification and discrimination of the growth phases of bacterial populations in batch culture is challenging. Cell analysis is indispensable for quality control and cell enrichment. Methods: In this paper, we report the results of our investigation on the use of single-cell Raman spectrometry (SCRS) for real-time analysis and prediction of cells in different growth phases during batch culture of Lactobacillus (L.) casei Zhang. A targeted analysis of defined cell growth phases at the level of the single cell, including lag phase, log phase, and stationary phase, was facilitated by SCRS. Results: Spectral shifts were identified in different states of cell growth that reflect biochemical changes specific to each cell growth phase. Raman peaks associated with DNA and RNA displayed a decrease in intensity over time, whereas protein-specific and lipid-specific Raman vibrations increased at different rates. Furthermore, a supervised classification model (Random Forest) was used to specify the lag phase, log phase, and stationary phase of cells based on SCRS, and a mean sensitivity of 90.7% and mean specificity of 90.8% were achieved. In addition, the correct cell type was predicted at an accuracy of approximately 91.2%. Conclusions:To conclude, Raman spectroscopy allows label-free, continuous monitoring of cell growth, which may facilitate more accurate estimates of the growth states of lactic acid bacterial populations during fermented batch culture in industry.
The release of paused RNA polymerase II into productive elongation is highly regulated, especially at genes that affect human development and disease. To exert control over this rate-limiting step, we designed sequence-specific synthetic transcription elongation factors (Syn-TEFs). These molecules are composed of programmable DNA-binding ligands flexibly tethered to a small molecule that engages the transcription elongation machinery. By limiting activity to targeted loci, Syn-TEFs convert constituent modules from broad-spectrum inhibitors of transcription into gene-specific stimulators. Here we present Syn-TEF1, a molecule that actively enables transcription across repressive GAA repeats that silence frataxin expression in Friedreich’s ataxia, a terminal neurodegenerative disease with no effective therapy. The modular design of Syn-TEF1 defines a general framework for developing a class of molecules that license transcription elongation at targeted genomic loci.
The family Mimiviridae, comprised by giant DNA viruses, has been increasingly studied since the isolation of the Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus (APMV), in 2003. In this work, we describe the genome analysis of two new mimiviruses, each isolated from a distinct Brazilian environment. Furthermore, for the first time, we are reporting the genomic characterization of mimiviruses of group C in Brazil (Br-mimiC), where a predominance of mimiviruses from group A has been previously reported. The genomes of the Br-mimiC isolates Mimivirus gilmour (MVGM) and Mimivirus golden (MVGD) are composed of double-stranded DNA molecules of ~1.2 Mb, each encoding more than 1,100 open reading frames. Genome functional annotations highlighted the presence of mimivirus group C hallmark genes, such as the set of seven aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases. However, the set of tRNA encoded by the Br-mimiC was distinct from those of other group C mimiviruses. Differences could also be observed in a genome synteny analysis, which demonstrated the presence of inversions and loci translocations at both extremities of Br-mimiC genomes. Both phylogenetic and phyletic analyses corroborate previous results, undoubtedly grouping the new Brazilian isolates into mimivirus group C. Finally, an updated pan-genome analysis of genus Mimivirus was performed including all new genomes available until the present moment. This last analysis showed a slight increase in the number of clusters of orthologous groups of proteins among mimiviruses of group A, with a larger increase after addition of sequences from mimiviruses of groups B and C, as well as a plateau tendency after the inclusion of the last four mimiviruses of group C, including the Br-mimiC isolates. Future prospective studies will help us to understand the genetic diversity among mimiviruses.
Neo-Darwinian explanations of organic evolution have settled on mutation as the principal factor in producing evolutionary novelty. Mechanistic characterizations have been also biased by the classic dogma of molecular biology, where only proteins regulate gene expression. This together with the rearrangement of genetic information, in terms of genes and chromosomes, was considered the cornerstone of evolution at the level of natural populations. This predominant view excluded both alternative explanations and phenomenologies that did not fit its paradigm. With the discovery of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) and their role in the control of genetic expression, new mechanisms arose providing heuristic power to complementary explanations to evolutionary processes overwhelmed by mainstream genocentric views. Viruses, epimutation, paramutation, splicing, and RNA editing have been revealed as paramount functions in genetic variations, phenotypic plasticity, and diversity. This article discusses how current epigenetic advances on ncRNAs have changed the vision of the mechanisms that generate variation, how organism-environment interaction can no longer be underestimated as a driver of organic evolution, and how it is now part of the transgenerational inheritance and evolution of species.
Our perspective on nature has changed throughout history and at the same time has affected directly or indirectly our perception of biological processes. In that sense, the "fluxus" of information in a viral population arises a result of a much more complex process than the encoding of a protein by a gene, but as the consequence of the interaction between all the components of the genome and its products: DNA, RNA, and proteins and its modulation by the environment. Even modest "agents of life" like viruses display an intricate way to express their information. This conclusion can be withdrawn from the huge quantity of data furnished by new and potent technologies available now to analyze viral populations. Based on this premise, evolutive processes for viruses are now interpreted as a simultaneous and coordinated phenomenon that leads to global (i.e., not gradual or 'random') remodeling of the population. Our system of study involves the modulation of herpes simplex virus populations through the selective pressure exerted by carrageenans, natural compounds that interfere with virion attachment to cells. On this line, we demonstrated that the passaging of virus in the presence of carrageenans leads to the appearance of progeny virus phenotipically different from the parental seed, particularly, the emergence of syncytial (syn) variants. This event precedes the emergence of mutations in the population which can be readily detected five passages after from the moment of the appearance of syn virus. This observation can be explained taking into consideration that the onset of phenotypic changes may be triggered by "environmental-sensitive" glycoproteins. These "environmental-sensitive" glycoproteins may act by themselves or may transmit the stimulus to "adapter" proteins, particularly, proteins of the tegument, which eventually modulate the expression of genomic products in the "virocell." The modulation of the RNA network is a common strategy of the virocell to respond to environmental changes. This "fast" adaptive mechanism is followed eventually by the appearance of mutations in the viral genome. In this paper, we interpret these findings from a philosophical and scientific point of view interconnecting epigenetic action, exerted by carragenans from early RNA network-DNA interaction to late DNA mutation. The complexity of HSV virion structure is an adequate platform to envision new studies on this topic that may be complemented in a near future through the analysis of the genetic dynamics of HSV populations.
The use of ultrasound has gained great interest for nucleic acids delivery. Ultrasound can reach deep tissues in non-invasive manner. The process of sonoporation is based on the use of low-frequency ultrasound combined with gas-filled microbubbles (MBs) allowing an improved delivery of molecules including nucleic acids in the insonified tissue. For in vivo gene transfer, the engineering of cationic MBs is essential for creating strong electrostatic interactions between MBs and nucleic acids leading to their protection against nucleases degradation and high concentration within the target tissue. Cationic MBs must be stable enough to withstand nucleic acids interaction, have a good size distribution for in vivo administration, and enough acoustic activity to be detected by echography. This review aims to summarize the basic principles of ultrasound-based delivery and new knowledge acquired in these recent years about this method. A focus is made on gene delivery by discussing reported studies made with cationic MBs including ours. They have the ability for efficient delivery of plasmid DNA (pDNA), mRNA or siRNA. Last, we discuss about the key challenges that have to be faced for a fine use of this delivery system.
Transposons derived from Sleeping Beauty (SB), piggyBac (PB), or Tol2 typically require cotransfection of transposon DNA with a transposase either as an expression plasmid or mRNA. Consequently, this results in genomic integration of the potentially therapeutic gene into chromosomes of the desired target cells, and thus conferring stable expression. Non-viral transfectionmethods are typically preferred to deliver the transposon components into the target cells. However, these methods do not match the efficacy typically attained with viral vectors and are sometimes associated with cellular toxicity evoked by the DNA itself. In recent years, the overall transposition efficacy has gradually increased by codon optimization of the transposase, generation of hyperactive transposases, and/or introduction of specific mutations in the transposon terminal repeats. Their versatility enabled the stable genetic engineering in many different primary cell types, including stem/progenitor cells and differentiated cell types. This prompted numerous preclinical proof-of-concept studies in disease models that demonstrated the potential of DNA transposons for ex vivo and in vivo gene therapy. One of the merits of transposon systems relates to their ability to deliver relatively large therapeutic transgenes that cannot readily be accommodated in viral vectors such as full-length dystrophin cDNA. These emerging insights paved the way toward the first transposon-based phase I/II clinical trials to treat hematologic cancer and other diseases. Though encouraging results were obtained, controlled pivotal clinical trials are needed to corroborate the efficacy and safety of transposon-based therapies.
Brucellosis is a commonly diagnosed zoonosis that causes infertility and abortion in cattle, it is acquired from handling of infected animals or consuming contaminated milk or milk products. In Colombia, it belongs to the official notifiable disease list, despite its relevance little is known about the origin, epidemiology and the genetic constituents of the strains circulating in dairy farms. Here we present the draft genome of B. abortus Ba Col-B012, an isolate obtained from a female Holstein belonging to a dairy farm in Nariño, Colombia. This genome comprises 3,234,714 bp and 3018 predicted protein-encoding genes. Using comparative genomics and phylogenetic analysis, we found that the strain Ba Col-B012 clustered with known biovar 4 variants. The analysis of the core genes allowed the identification of polymorphisms only present in biovar 4 genomes, these regions are proposed as possible targets for identification by PCR. The sequencing of B. abortus Ba Col-B012 genome provides important insights to improve the diagnosis and the epidemiology of this disease and represents the first report of the biovar 4 in Colombia.
Selecting internal references is important for normalizing the loading quantity of samples in quantitative reverse-transcription PCR (qRT-PCR). In the present study, a systematic evaluation of reference genes among nine hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines was conducted. After screening the microarray assay data of ten HCC cell lines, 19 candidate reference genes were preselected and then evaluated by qRT-PCR, together with ACTB, GAPDH, HPRT1 and TUBB. The expression evenness of these candidate genes was evaluated using RefFinder. The stabilities of the reference genes were further evaluated under different experimental perturbations in Huh-7 and MHCC-97L, and the applicability of the reference genes was assessed by measuring the mRNA expression of CCND1, CCND3, CDK4 and CDK6 under sorafenib treatment in Huh-7. Results showed that TFG and SFRS4 are among the most reliable reference genes, and ACTB ranks third and acts quite well as a classical choice, whereas GAPDH, HPRT1 and TUBB are not proper reference genes in qRT-PCR assays among the HCC cell lines. SFRS4, YWHAB, SFRS4 and CNPY3 are the most stable reference genes of the MHCC-97L under the perturbations of chemotherapy, oxidative stress, starvation and hypoxia respectively, whereas YWHAB is themost stable one of Huh-7 under all perturbations. GAPDH is recommended as a reference gene under chemotherapy perturbations. YWHAB and UBE2B, TMED2 and TSFM, and GAPDH and TSFM are the two best reference genes under oxidative stress, starvation and hypoxia perturbations respectively. TSFM is stable in both cell lines across all the perturbations.
Dysfunction of cardiac cells under hypoxia has been identified as an essential event leading to myocytes functional failure. MiRNAs are importantly regulatory small-noncoding RNAs that negatively regulate gene expression through the direct binding of 3--UTR region of their target mRNAs. Recent studies have demonstrated that miRNAs are aberrantly expressed in the cardiovascular system under pathological conditions.Pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1 (PDK1) is a kinase which phosphorylates pyruvate dehydrogenase to inactivate it, leading to elevated anaerobic glycolysis and decreased cellular respiration. In the present study, we report that miR-138 expressions were significantly suppressed under long exposure to hypoxia. In addition, overexpression of miR-138 protects human cardiac cells against hypoxia. We observed miR-138 inhibits glycolysis but promotes mitochondrial respiration through directly targetting PDK1. Moreover, we demonstrate that hypoxia induces cardiac cell death through increased glycolysis and decreased mitochondrial respiration. Inhibition of glycolysis by either glycolysis inhibitor or knockdown glycolysis enzymes, Glucose transportor 1 (Glut1) or PDK1 contributes to cardiac cells' survival. The cell sentivity to hypoxia was recovered when the PDK1 level was restored in miR-138 overexpressing cardiac cells. The present study leads to the intervention of novel therapeutic strategies against cardiac cells dysfunction during surgery or ischemia.
Background: Bat-borne virus surveillance is necessary for determining inter-species transmission risks and is important due to the wide-range of bat species which may harbour potential pathogens. This study aimed to monitor coronaviruses (CoVs) and paramyxoviruses (PMVs) in bats roosting in northwest Italian regions. Our investigation was focused on CoVs and PMVs due to their proven ability to switch host and their zoonotic potential. Here we provide the phylogenetic characterization of the highly conserved polymerase gene fragments. Results: Family-wide PCR screenings were used to test 302 bats belonging to 19 different bat species. Thirty-eight animals from 12 locations were confirmed as PCR positive, with an overall detection rate of 12.6% [95% CI: 9.3-16.8]. CoV RNA was found in 36 bats belonging to eight species, while PMV RNA in three Pipistrellus spp. Phylogenetic characterization have been obtained for 15 alpha- CoVs, 5 beta-CoVs and three PMVs; moreover one P. pipistrellus resulted co-infected with both CoV and PMV. A divergent alpha-CoV clade from Myotis nattereri SpA is also described. The compact cluster of beta-CoVs from R. ferrumequinum roosts expands the current viral sequence database, specifically for this species in Europe. To our knowledge this is the first report of CoVs in Plecotus auritus and M. oxygnathus, and of PMVs in P. kuhlii. Conclusions: This study identified alpha and beta-CoVs in new bat species and in previously unsurveyed Italian regions. To our knowledge this represents the first and unique report of PMVs in Italy. The 23 new bat genetic sequences presented will expand the current molecular bat-borne virus databases. Considering the amount of novel bat-borne PMVs associated with the emergence of zoonotic infections in animals and humans in the last years, the definition of viral diversity within European bat species is needed. Performing surveillance studies within a specific geographic area can provide awareness of viral burden where bats roost in close proximity to spillover hosts, and form the basis for the appropriate control measures against potential threats for public health and optimal management of bats and their habitats.
Ischemic stroke is the leading cause of disability and deaths worldwide. MiRNAs have been shown to play an important role in development and pathogenesis of the nervous system. However, the precise function and mechanism of miRNAs are not fully understood in the brain injury induced by ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). Herein, our study showed that miR-375 expression was significantly down-regulated in the rat I/R brain. With the in vivo and in vitro I/R stroke models, we found that miR-375 mimic provides significant protection from injury to cerebral I/R, which is reflected by reduced infarct volumes and cell apoptosis, and increased proliferation and migration of PC12 cells. Mechanistically, our findings showed that miR-375 binds to 3-UTR region of Ctgf mRNA, subsequently leading to the decreased expression of Ctgf in the I/R brain. Furthermore, we showed that miR-375/Ctgf-mediated protective effects are associated with p21/PI3K/Akt signaling pathways. Our findings thus provide a new insight into the mechanism of cerebral I/R injury and pave a potential new way for the therapy of cerebral I/R injury.
In Trichoderma reesei light is an important factor in the regulation of glycoside hydrolase gene expression. We therefore investigated the influence of different light intensities on cellulase activity and protein secretion. Differentially secreted proteins in light and darkness as identified by mass spectrometry included members of different glycoside hydrolase families, such as CBH1, Cel3A, Cel61B, XYN2, and XYN4. Several of the associated genes showed light-dependent regulation on the transcript level. Deletion of the photoreceptor genes blr1 and blr2 resulted in a diminished difference of protein abundance between light and darkness. The amount of secreted proteins including that of the major exo-acting beta-1,4-glucanases CBH1 and CBH2 was generally lower in light-grown cultures than in darkness. In contrast, cbh1 transcript levels increased with increasing light intensity from 700 to 2,000 lux but dopped at high light intensity (5,000 lux). In the photoreceptor mutants Δblr1 and Δblr2 cellulase activity in light was reduced compared to activity in darkness, showing a discrepancy between transcript levels and secreted cellulase activity. Furthermore, evaluation of different light sensitivities revealed an increased light tolerance with respect to cellulase expression of QM9414 compared to its parental strain QM6a. Investigation of one of the differentially expressed proteins between light and darkness, CLF1, revealed its function as a factor involved in regulation of secreted protease activity. T. reesei secretes a different set of proteins in light compared to darkness, this difference being mainly due to the function of the major known photoreceptors. Moreover, cellulase regulation is adjusted to light intensity and improved light tolerance was correlated with increased cellulase production. Our findings further support the hypothesis of a light intensity dependent post-transcriptional regulation of cellulase gene expression in T. reesei.
Severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) remains to be challenging for its unpredictable inflammatory progression from acute pancreatitis to SAP. Apoptosis is an important pathology of SAP. Fibrinogen-like protein 2 (FGL2) has been reported to be involved in apoptosis. The present study aimed to explore the therapeutic effect of an adenovirus-mediated artificial miRNA targetting FGL2 (Ad-FGL2-miRNA) in taurocholate-induced murine pancreatitis models. Sodium taurocholate was retrogradely injected into the biliopancreatic ducts of the C57/BL mice to induce SAP. FGL2 expression was measured with reverse transcription-PCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemical staining. ELISA was used to detect the activity of amylase and the concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β). In addition, the mRNA levels of TNF-α and IL-1β were also detected. Finally, apoptosis was assessed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL) method and Western blotting. Ad-FGL2-miRNA significantly suppressed FGL2 expression and alleviated pancreatic injury. Also, Ad-FGL2-miRNA markedly inhibited a post-SAP increase in the activation of TNF-α and IL-1β. Finally, pretreatment with Ad-FGL2-miRNA ameliorated apoptosis at the early stage of SAP by modulating cleaved caspase-3 and therefore played a protective role. These results indicated that FGL2 might be a promising target for attenuating the severity of SAP and adenovirus-mediated artificial miRNAs targetting FGL2 represented a potential therapeutic approach for the treatment of SAP.
Race-specific resistance genes protect the global wheat crop from stem rust disease caused by Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici (Pgt) but are often overcome owing to evolution of new virulent races of the pathogen. To understand virulence evolution in Pgt, we identified the protein ligand (AvrSr50) recognized by the Sr50 resistance protein. A spontaneous mutant of Pgt virulent to Sr50 contained a 2.5 mega-base pair loss-of-heterozygosity event. A haustorial secreted protein from this region triggers Sr50-dependent defense responses in planta and interacts directly with the Sr50 protein. Virulence alleles of AvrSr50 have arisen through DNA insertion and sequence divergence, and our data provide molecular evidence that in addition to sexual recombination, somatic exchange can play a role in the emergence of new virulence traits in Pgt.
Zygosaccharomyces bailii is a common yeast in various food fermentations. Understanding the metabolic properties and genetic mechanisms of Z. bailii is important for its industrial applications. Fermentation characteristics of Z. bailii MT15 from Chinese Maotai-flavor liquor fermentation were studied. Z. bailii MT15 produced various flavor compounds, including 19 alcohols, six acids, three esters, three ketones, and two aldehydes. Moreover, production of acids and aldehydes were increased by 110 and 41%, respectively, at 37°C (the maximum temperature in liquor fermentation) compared with that at 30°C, indicating its excellent flavor productivity. Z. bailii MT15 is a diploid with genome size of 20.19 Mb. Comparative transcriptome analysis revealed that 12 genes related to amino acid transport were significantly up-regulated (2.41- to 5.11-fold) at 37°C. Moreover, genes ARO8, ARO9, and ALDH4 involved in amino acid metabolism also showed higher expression levels (> 1.71-fold) at 37°C. Increased substrate supply and a vigorous metabolism might be beneficial for the increased production of acids and aldehydes at 37°C. This work revealed the potential contribution of Z. bailii to various flavor compounds in food fermentation, and produced insights into the metabolic mechanisms of Z. bailii in flavor production.
The food chain is thought to play an important role in the transmission of antibiotic resistances from commensal and beneficial bacteria to pathogens. Streptococcus thermophilus is a lactic acid bacterium of major importance as a starter for the dairy industry. This study reports the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 16 representative antimicrobial agents to 41 isolates of S. thermophilus derived from raw milk. Strains showing resistance to tetracycline (seven), erythromycin and clindamycin (two), and streptomycin and neomycin (one) were found. PCR amplification identified tet(S) in all the tetracycline-resistant strains, and ermB in the two erythromycin/clindamycin-resistant strains. Hybridisation experiments suggested each resistance gene to be located in the chromosome with a similar genetic organization. Five antibiotic-resistant strains -two resistant to tetracycline (St-2 and St-9), two resistant to erythromycin/clindamycin (St-5 and St-6), and one resistant to streptomycin/neomycin (St-10)- were subjected to genome sequencing and analysis. The tet(S) gene was identified in small contigs of 3.2 and 3.7 kbp in St-2 and St-9, respectively, flanked by truncated copies of insertion sequence (IS) elements. Similarly, ermB in St-6 and St-5 was found in contigs of 1.6 and 28.1 kbp, respectively. Sequence analysis and comparison of the largest contig showed it to contain three segments (21.9, 3.7, and 1.4 kbp long) highly homologous to non-collinear sequences of pRE25 from Enterococcus faecalis. These segments contained the ermB gene, a transference module with an origin of transfer (oriT) plus 15 open reading frames encoding proteins involved in conjugation, and modules for plasmid replication and segregation. Homologous stretches were separated by short, IS-related sequences, resembling the genetic organization of the integrative and conjugative elements (ICEs) found in Streptococcus species. No gene known to provide aminoglycoside resistance was seen in St-10. Four strain-specific amino acid substitutions in the RsmG methyltransferase were scored in this strain; these might be associated to its streptomycin/neomycin resistance. Under yogurt manufacturing and storage conditions, no transfer of either tet(S) or ermB from S. thermophilus to L. delbrueckii was detected. The present results contribute toward characterisation of the antibiotic resistance profiles in S. thermophilus, provide evidence for the genetic basis of acquired resistances and deepen on their transference capability.
Microbial mats are complex biofilms in which the major element cycles are represented at a millimeter scale. In this study, community variability within microbial mats from the Camargue wetlands (Rhone Delta, southern France) were analyzed over 3 years during two different seasons (spring and autumn) and at different layers of the mat (0-2, 2-4, and 4-6 mm). To assess bacterial diversity in the mats, amplicons of the V1-V2 region of the 16S rRNA gene were sequenced. The community's functionality was characterized using two approaches: (i) inferred functionality through 16S rRNA amplicons genes according to PICRUSt, and (ii) a shotgun metagenomic analysis. Based on the reads distinguished, microbial communities were dominated by Bacteria (~94%), followed by Archaea (~4%) and Eukarya (~1%). The major phyla of Bacteria were Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Spirochaetes, Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, and Cyanobacteria, which together represented 70-80% of the total population detected. The phylum Euryarchaeota represented ~80% of the Archaea identified. These results showed that the total bacterial diversity from the Camargue microbial mats was not significantly affected by seasonal changes at the studied location; however, there were differences among layers, especially between the 0-2 mm layer and the other two layers. PICRUSt and shotgun metagenomic analyses revealed similar general biological processes in all samples analyzed, by season and depth, indicating that different layers were functionally stable, although some taxa changed during the spring and autumn seasons over the 3 years. Several gene families and pathways were tracked with the oxic-anoxic gradient of the layers. Genes directly involved in photosynthesis (KO, KEGG Orthology) were significantly more abundant in the top layer (0-2 mm) than in the lower layers (2-4 and 4-6 mm). In the anoxic layers, the presence of ferredoxins likely reflected the variation of redox reactions required for anaerobic respiration. Sulfatase genes had the highest relative abundance below 2 mm. Finally, chemotaxis signature genes peaked sharply at the oxic/photic and transitional oxic-anoxic boundary. This functional differentiation reflected the taxonomic diversity of the different layers of the mat.
Background: The artificial enlargement of the planting area and ecological amplitude of ornamentals for horticultural and landscape applications are significant. Herbaceous peony (Paeonia lactiflora Pall.) is a world-famous ornamental with attractive and fragrant flowers and is mainly planted in temperate and cool areas. Comparatively higher winter temperatures in the subtropical and tropical Northern Hemisphere result in a deficit of chilling accumulation for bud dormancy release, which severely hinders "The southward plantation of herbaceous peony". Studies on the dormancy, chilling requirement (CR) and relevant molecular mechanisms of peony are needed to enhance our ability to extend the range of this valuable horticultural species. Results: Based on natural and artificial chilling experiments, and chilling hour (CH) and chilling unit (CU) evaluation systems, the lowest CR of 'Hang Baishao' was between 504.00 and 672.00 CHs and the optimal CR was 672.00 CHs and 856.08 CUs for achieving strong sprouting, growth and flowering performance. Transcriptome sequencing and gene identification by RNA-Seq were performed on 'Hang Baishao' buds during the dormancy and sprouting periods. Six gene libraries were constructed, and 66 temperature- and photoperiod-associated unigenes were identified as the potential candidate genes that may regulate or possibly determine CR characteristics. The difference in the expression patterns of SUPPRESSPOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS1 (SOC1) between the winters of 2012-2013 and 2015-2016, and the difference of CR fulfillment periods also between these two winters represented the interesting congruent relationships. This correlation was also observed for WRKY DNA-BINDING PROTEIN 33 (WRKY 33). Conclusions: Combined with the results acquired from all of experiments, 'Hang Baishao' was confirmed to be a superb peony resource that have significantly low CR characteristics. The two genes of SOC1 and WRKY33 are likely involved in determining the CR amount and fulfillment period of 'Hang Baishao'. HEAT SHOCK PROTEIN, OSMOTIN and TIMING OF CAB EXPRESSION 1 also deserve attention for the CR research. This study could contribute to the knowledge of the deep factors and mechanisms that regulate CR characteristics, and may be beneficial for breeding new germplasms that have low CRs for landscape or horticulture applications in subtropical regions.
Zika virus (ZIKV) has been associated to central nervous system (CNS) harm, and virus was detected in the brain and cerebrospinal fluids of microcephaly and meningoencephalitis cases. However, the mechanism by which the virus reaches the CNS is unclear. Here, we addressed the effects of ZIKV replication in human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs), as an in vitro model of blood brain barrier (BBB), and evaluated virus extravasation and BBB integrity in an in vivo mouse experimental model. HBMECs were productively infected by African and Brazilian ZIKV strains (ZIKVMR766 and ZIKVPE243), which induce increased production of type I and type III IFN, inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Infection with ZIKVMR766 promoted earlier cellular death, in comparison to ZIKVPE243, but infection with either strain did not result in enhanced endothelial permeability. Despite the maintenance of endothelial integrity, infectious virus particles crossed the monolayer by endocytosis/exocytosis-dependent replication pathway or by transcytosis. Remarkably, both viruses' strains infected IFNAR deficient mice, with high viral load being detected in the brains, without BBB disruption, which was only detected at later time points after infection. These data suggest that ZIKV infects and activates endothelial cells, and might reach the CNS through basolateral release, transcytosis or transinfection processes. These findings further improve the current knowledge regarding ZIKV dissemination pathways.
The World Health Organization has rated multi-drug resistant (MDR) Pseudomonas aeruginosa as serious threat for human health. It is, however, unclear, whether intestinal MDR P. aeruginosa carriage is associated with inflammatory responses in intestinal or even systemic compartments. In the present study, we generated with respect to their microbiota "humanized" mice by human fecal microbiota transplantation of secondary abiotic mice. Following peroral challenge with a clinical P. aeruginosa isolate on two consecutive days, mice harboring a human or murine microbiota were only partially protected from stable intestinal P. aeruginosa colonization given that up to 78% of mice were P. aeruginosa-positive at day 28 post-infection (p.i.). Irrespective of the host-specificity of the microbiota, P. aeruginosa colonized mice were clinically uncompromised. However, P. aeruginosa colonization resulted in increased intestinal epithelial apoptosis that was accompanied by pronounced proliferative/regenerative cell responses. Furthermore, at day 7 p.i. increased innate immune cell populations such as macrophages and monocytes could be observed in the colon of mice harboring either a human or murine microbiota, whereas this held true at day 28 p.i. for adaptive immune cells such as B lymphocytes in both the small and large intestines of mice with murine microbiota. At day 7 p.i., pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion was enhanced in the colon and mesenteric lymph nodes, whereas the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 was down-regulated in the former at day 28 p.i. Strikingly, cytokine responses upon intestinal P. aeruginosa colonization were not restricted to the intestinal tract, but could also be observed systemically, given that TNF and IFN-γ concentrations were elevated in spleens as early as 7 days p.i., whereas splenic IL-10 levels were dampened at day 28 p.i. of mice with human microbiota. In conclusion, mere intestinal carriage of MDR P. aeruginosa by clinically unaffected mice results in pro-inflammatory sequelae not only in intestinal, but also systemic compartments.
Aim: The study was conducted to report the occurrence of the Clostridium perfringens in sheep and goats of the Kashmir valley for the 1st time and to characterize them molecularly with respect to toxin genes to determine the prevalence of the various toxinotypes. Materials and Methods: A total of 177 samples (152 from sheep and 25 from goats) collected from healthy, diarrheic animals, and morbid material of animals suspected to have died of enterotoxaemia were screened for C. perfringens toxinotypes. The presumptive positive isolates were confirmed using 16S rRNA gene-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR). All the confirmed isolates were screened for six toxin genes, namely; cpa, cpb, etx, cpi, cpb2, and cpe using a multiplex PCR. Results: The PCR amplification of 16S rRNA gene revealed that out of 177 samples collected, 125 (70.62%) were found positive for C. perfringens, of which 110 (72.36%) were from sheep and 15 (60%) were from goats. The highest prevalence of C. perfringens toxinotype D was observed in lambs (56.16%) and kids (46.16%) followed by 3.84% in adult sheep while it was absent in samples obtained from adult goats. The multiplex PCR revealed that 67 (60.90%) isolates from sheep and 8 (53.33%) isolates from goats belonged to toxinotype A, while 43 (39.09%) isolates from sheep and 7 (46.66%) isolates from goats were detected as toxinotype D. None of the isolates was found to be toxinotype B, C, or E. All the C. perfringens toxinotype A isolates from sheep were negative for both cpb2 and cpe genes, however, 27.90% toxinotype D isolates from sheep carried cpb2 gene, and 6.97% possessed cpe gene. In contrast, 12.50% C. perfringens toxinotype A isolates from goats harbored cpb2 and cpe genes while 14.28% isolates belonging to toxinotype D carried cpb2 and cpe genes, respectively. Conclusion: The high prevalence of C. perfringens was observed, even in day-old lambs. The toxinotypes A and D are prevalent in both sheep and goats. The severity of disease and mortality may be associated with the presence of minor toxins in both the detected toxinotypes.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Background: The identification of prognostic biomarkers for cancer patients is essential for cancer research. These days, DNA methylation has been proved to be associated with cancer prognosis. However, there are few methods which identify the prognostic markers based on DNA methylation data systematically, especially considering the interaction among DNA methylation sites. Methods: In this paper, we first evaluated the stabilities of microRNA, mRNA, and DNA methylation data in prognosis of cancer. After that, a rank-based method was applied to construct a DNA methylation interaction network. In this network, nodes with the largest degrees (10% of all the nodes) were selected as hubs. Cox regression was applied to select the hubs as prognostic signature. In this prognostic signature, DNA methylation levels of each DNA methylation site are correlated with the outcomes of cancer patients. After obtaining these prognostic genes, we performed the survival analysis in the training group and the test group to verify the reliability of these genes. Results: We applied our method in three cancers (ovarian cancer, breast cancer and Glioblastoma Multiforme). In all the three cancers, there are more common ones of prognostic genes selected from different samples in DNA methylation data, compared with gene expression data and miRNA expression data, which indicates the DNA methylation data may be more stable in cancer prognosis. Power-law distribution fitting suggests that the DNA methylation interaction networks are scale-free. And the hubs selected from the three networks are all enriched by cancer related pathways. The gene signatures were obtained for the three cancers respectively, and survival analysis shows they can distinguish the outcomes of tumor patients in both the training data sets and test data sets, which outperformed the control signatures. Conclusions: A computational method was proposed to construct DNA methylation interaction network and this network could be used to select prognostic signatures in cancer.
Rift Valley fever phlebovirus (RVFV; Phenuiviridae, Phlebovirus) is an important mosquito-borne pathogen of both humans and ruminants. The RVFV genome is composed of tripartite, single stranded, negative or ambisense RNAs. The small (S) segment encodes both the nucleocapsid protein (N) and the non-structural protein (NSs). The N protein is responsible for the formation of the viral ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes, which are essential in the virus life cycle and for the transcription and replication of the viral genome. There is currently limited knowledge surrounding the roles of the RVFV nucleocapsid protein in viral infection other than its key functions: N protein multimerisation, encapsidation of the RNA genome and interactions with the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, L. By bioinformatic comparison of the N sequences of fourteen phleboviruses, mutational analysis, minigenome assays and packaging assays, we have further characterised the RVFV N protein. Amino acids P11 and F149 in RVFV N play an essential role in the function of RNPs and are neither associated with N protein multimerisation nor known nucleocapsid protein functions and may have additional roles in the virus life cycle. Amino acid Y30 exhibited increased minigenome activity despite reduced RNA binding capacity. Additionally, we have determined that the N-terminal arm of N protein is not involved in N-L interactions. Elucidating the fundamental processes that involve the nucleocapsid protein will add to our understanding of this important viral protein and may influence future studies in the development of novel antiviral strategies.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Cancer cells frequently exhibit chromosomal abnormalities. Specific cytogenetic aberrations often are predictors of outcome, especially in hematologic neoplasms, such as monosomy 7 in myeloid malignancies. The functional consequences of aneuploidy at the cellular level are difficult to assess because of a lack of convenient markers to distinguish abnormal from diploid cells. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to study hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells from the bone marrow of 4 healthy donors and5 patients withbonemarrowfailureandchromosomegainor loss. In total, transcriptome sequences were obtained from 391 control cells and 588 cells from patients. We characterized normal hematopoiesis as binary differentiation from stem cells to erythroid and myeloid-lymphoidpathways.Aneuploid cellsweredistinguished fromdiploid cells in patient samples by computational analyses of read fractions and gene expression of individual chromosomes.Weconfirmedassignment of aneuploidy to individual cells quantitatively, by copy-number variation, and qualitatively, by loss of heterozygosity. When we projected patients'singlecellsonto themapofnormalhematopoiesis, diversepatternswere observed, broadly reflecting clinical phenotypes. Patients' monosomy 7 cells showed downregulation of genes involved in immune response and DNA damage checkpoint and apoptosis pathways, whichmay contribute to the clonal expansion of monosomy 7 cells with accumulated gene mutations. scRNA-seq is a powerful technique through which to infer the functional consequences of chromosome gain and loss and explore gene targets for directed therapy.
Background: Hepatitis B virus (HBV) chronic infection affects up to 240 million people in the world and it is a common cause of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). HBV covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) plays an essential role in HBV persistence and replication. Current pharmacological treatment with nucleos(t)ide analogues (NA) may suppress HBV replication with little or no impact on cccDNA, hence lifelong treatment is required in the vast majority of patients. Clearances of intrahepatic cccDNA and/or HBsAg are critical endpoints for future antiviral therapy in chronic HBV. Recent promising developments targeting different molecular HBV life cycle steps are being pre-clinically tested or have moved forward in early clinical trials. Methods: We review the current state of the art of these pharmacological developments, mainly focusing on efficacy and safety results, which are expected to lay the ground for future HBV eradication. An inclusive literature search on new treatments of HBV using the following electronic databases: Pubmed/MEDLINE, AMED, CINAHL and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. Full-text manuscripts and abstracts published over the last 12years, from 2005 to March 2011 were reviewed for relevance and reference lists were crosschecked for additional applicable studies regarding new HBV antiviral treatment. Results: HBV entry inhibitors, HBV core inhibitors, HBV cccDNA transcripts RNA interference, HBV cell apoptosis inducers, HBV RNA, viral proteins and DNA knock down agents, HBV release inhibitors, anti-sense nucleosides, exogenous interferon stimulation, interferon response stimulation and HBV therapeutic vaccines were reviewed. Conclusion: This review will provide readers with an updated vision of current and foreseeable therapeutic developments in chronic hepatitis B.
In Extended Data Fig. 4d of this Letter, the immunofluorescence images (bottom row, experiments performed in the presence of the PARP inhibitor Olaparib) were inadvertently duplicated in panel e (bottom row, under the 'PARP inhibitor' heading). The corrected Extended Data Fig. 4e is shown as Supplementary Information to this Corrigendum, and this error does not alter the conclusions of the paper. In addition, in the 'Oligonucleotides' section of the Methods, the two oligonucleotides used for METTL14 should have been listed as: "sh 1, AGCATTGGTGCCGTGTTAAAT ; or sh 2, GCTGACAGATTTGAAGAATAT." We apologize for any inconvenience that these errors may have caused. The original Letter has not been corrected. Supplementary Information is available in the online version of this Corrigendum.
Translation of mRNA into proteins is a complex process involving several layers of regulation. It is often assumed that changes in mRNA transcription reflect changes in protein synthesis, but many exceptions have been observed. Recently, a technique called ribosome profiling (or Ribo-Seq) has emerged as a powerful method that allows identification, with high accuracy, which regions of mRNA are translated into proteins and quantification of translation at the genome-wide level. Here, we present a generalized protocol for genome-wide quantification of translation using Ribo-Seq in budding yeast. In addition, combining Ribo-Seq data with mRNA abundance measurements allows us to simultaneously quantify translation efficiency of thousands of mRNA transcripts in the same sample and compare changes in these parameters in response to experimental manipulations or in different physiological states. We describe a detailed protocol for generation of ribosome footprints using nuclease digestion, isolation of intact ribosome-footprint complexes via sucrose gradient fractionation, and preparation of DNA libraries for deep sequencing along with appropriate quality controls necessary to ensure accurate analysis of in vivo translation.
Background: The oncogenic potential of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in breast cancer is being increasingly recognized. Despite some controversies regarding such role, new evidence is suggesting a culpability of EBV in breast cancer, particularly in Africa where the virus has been originally associated with causation of several solid and hematological malignancies. One example is a report from Sudan implicating EBV as a prime etiologic agent for an aggressive type of breast cancer, where nearly 100% of tumor tissues were shown to carry viral signatures. To get a broader view on such association, other nearby countries should be investigated. The present study aims to determine the prevalence and possible associations of the virus in Eritrean breast cancer patients. Methods: Detection of EBV genome using primers that target Epstein Barr Encoded RNA (EBER) gene and Latent Membrane Protein-1 (LMP-1) gene sequences was performed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on DNA samples extracted from 144 formalin fixed paraffin embedded breast cancer tissues and 63 non-cancerous breast tissue as control group. A subset of PCR positive samples was evaluated for EBER gene expression by in situ hybridization (ISH). Expression of Latent Membrane Protein-2a (LMP2a) was also assessed by immunohistochemistry in a subset of 45 samples. Results: Based on PCR results, EBV genome signals were detected in a total of 40 samples (27.77%) as compared to controls (p-value = 0. 0031) with a higher sensitivity when using the EBER primers. Five out of the 14 samples stained by EBER-ISH 35.71% were positive for the virus indicating the presence of the viral genome within the tumor cells. Of those stained for IHC 7 (15.55%) were positive for LMP2a showing low viral protein frequency. Conclusions: Based on these findings it can be concluded that EBV in Eritrea is associated with a smaller subset of tumors, unlike neighboring Sudan, thus pointing to possible differences in population predisposition and diseases epidemiology.
Memory CD8 T cells that circulate in the blood and are present in lymphoid organs are an essential component of long-lived T cell immunity. These memory CD8 T cells remain poised to rapidly elaborate effector functions upon re-exposure to pathogens, but also have many properties in common with naive cells, including pluripotency and the ability to migrate to the lymph nodes and spleen. Thus, memory cells embody features of both naive and effector cells, fuelling a long-standing debate centred on whether memory T cells develop from effector cells or directly from naive cells. Here we show that long-lived memory CD8 T cells are derived from a subset of effector T cells through a process of dedifferentiation. To assess the developmental origin of memory CD8 T cells, we investigated changes in DNA methylation programming at naive and effector cell-associated genes in virus-specific CD8 T cells during acute lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection in mice. Methylation profiling of terminal effector versus memory-precursor CD8 T cell subsets showed that, rather than retaining a naive epigenetic state, the subset of cells that gives rise to memory cells acquired de novo DNA methylation programs at naive-associated genes and became demethylated at the loci of classically defined effector molecules. Conditional deletion of the de novo methyltransferase Dnmt3a at an early stage of effector differentiation resulted in reduced methylation and faster re-expression of naive-associated genes, thereby accelerating the development of memory cells. Longitudinal phenotypic and epigenetic characterization of the memory-precursor effector subset of virus-specific CD8 T cells transferred into antigen-free mice revealed that differentiation to memory cells was coupled to erasure of de novo methylation programs and re-expression of naive-associated genes. Thus, epigenetic repression of naive-associated genes in effector CD8 T cells can be reversed in cells that develop into long-lived memory CD8 T cells while key effector genes remain demethylated, demonstrating that memory T cells arise from a subset of fate-permissive effector T cells.
Zinc is an imperative micronutrient required for optimum plant growth. Zinc solubilizing bacteria are potential alternatives for zinc supplementation and convert applied inorganic zinc to available forms. This study was conducted to screen zinc solubilizing rhizobacteria isolated from wheat and sugarcane, and to analyze their effect on wheat growth and development. Fourteen exo-polysaccharides producing bacterial isolates of wheat were identified and characterized biochemically as well as on the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequences. Along these, 10 identified sugarcane isolates were also screened for zinc solubilizing ability on five different insoluble zinc sources. Out of 24, five strains, i.e., EPS 1 (Pseudomonas fragi), EPS 6 (Pantoea dispersa), EPS 13 (Pantoea agglomerans), PBS 2 (E. cloacae) and LHRW1 (Rhizobium sp.) were selected (based on their zinc solubilizing and PGP activities) for pot scale plant experiments. ZnCO3 was used as zinc source and wheat seedlings were inoculated with these five strains, individually, to assess their effect on plant growth and development. The effect on plants was analyzed based on growth parameters and quantifying zinc content of shoot, root and grains using atomic absorption spectroscopy. Plant experiment was performed in two sets. For first set of plant experiments (harvested after 1 month), maximum shoot and root dry weights and shoot lengths were noted for the plants inoculated with Rhizobium sp. (LHRW1) while E. cloacae (PBS 2) increased both shoot and root lengths. Highest zinc content was found in shoots of E. cloacae (PBS 2) and in roots of P. agglomerans (EPS 13) followed by zinc supplemented control. For second set of plant experiment, when plants were harvested after three months, Pantoea dispersa (EPS 6), P. agglomerans (EPS 13) and E. cloacae (PBS 2) significantly increased shoot dry weights. However, significant increase in root dry weights and maximum zinc content was recorded for Pseudomonas fragi (EPS 1) inoculated plants, isolated from wheat rhizosphere. While maximum zinc content for roots was quantified in the control plants indicating the plant's inability to transport zinc to grains, supporting accelerated bioavailability of zinc to plant grains with zinc solubilizing rhizobacteria.
Leishmaniasis is a neglected protozoan disease that mainly affects the tropical as well as subtropical countries of the world. The primary option to control the disease still relies on chemotherapy. However, a hindrance to treatments owing to the emergence of drug-resistant parasites, enormous side effects of the drugs, their high cost, and requirement of long course hospitalization has added to the existing problems of leishmaniasis containment program. This review highlights the prospects of immunotherapy and/or immunochemotherapy to address the limitations for current treatment measures for leishmaniasis. In addition to the progress in alternate therapeutic strategies, the possibility and advances in developing preventive measures against the disease have been pointed. The review highlights our recent understandings of the protective immunology that can be exploited to develop an effective vaccine against leishmaniasis. Moreover, an update on the approaches that have evolved over the recent years are predominantly focused to overcome the current challenges in developing immunotherapeutic as well as prophylactic antileishmanial vaccines is discussed.
Background: The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) has collected transcriptome, genome and epigenome information for over 20 cancers from thousands of patients. The availability of these diverse data types makes it necessary to combine these data to capture the heterogeneity of biological processes and phenotypes and further identify homogeneous subtypes for cancers such as breast cancer. Many multi-view clustering approaches are proposed to discover clusters across different data types. The problem is challenging when different data types show poor agreement of clustering structure. Results: In this work, we first propose a multi-view clustering approach with consensus (CMC), which tries to find consensus kernels among views by using Hilbert Schmidt Independence Criterion. To tackle the problem when poor agreement among views exists, we further propose a multi-view clustering approach with enhanced consensus (ECMC) to solve this problem by decomposing the kernel information in each view into a consensus part and a disagreement part. The consensus parts for different views are supposed to be similar, and the disagreement parts should be independent with the consensus parts. Both the CMC and ECMC models can be solved by alternative updating with semi-definite programming. Our experiments on both simulation datasets and real-world benchmark datasets show that ECMC model could achieve higher clustering accuracies than other state-of-art multi-view clustering approaches. We also apply the ECMC model to integrate mRNA expression, DNA methylation and microRNA (miRNA) expression data for five cancer data sets, and the survival analysis show that our ECMC model outperforms other methods when identifying cancer subtypes. By Fisher's combination test method, we found that three computed subtypes roughly correspond to three known breast cancer subtypes including luminal B, HER2 and basal-like subtypes. Conclusion: Integrating heterogeneous TCGA datasets by our proposed multi-view clustering approach ECMC could effectively identify cancer subtypes.
Background: Although post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is primarily a mental disorder, it can cause additional symptoms that do not seem to be directly related to the central nervous system, which PTSD is assumed to directly affect. PTSD-mediated heart diseases are some of such secondary disorders. In spite of the significant correlations between PTSD and heart diseases, spatial separation between the heart and brain (where PTSD is primarily active) prevents researchers from elucidating the mechanisms that bridge the two disorders. Our purpose was to identify genes linking PTSD and heart diseases. Methods: In this study, gene expression profiles of various murine tissues observed under various types of stress or without stress were analyzed in an integrated manner using tensor decomposition (TD). Results: Based upon the obtained features, 400 genes were identified as candidate genes that may mediate heart diseases associated with PTSD. Various gene enrichment analyses supported biological reliability of the identified genes. Ten genes encoding protein-, DNA-, or mRNA-interacting proteins - ILF2, ILF3, ESR1, ESR2, RAD21, HTT, ATF2, NR3C1, TP53, and TP63 - were found to be likely to regulate expression of most of these 400 genes and therefore are candidate primary genes that cause PTSD-mediated heart diseases. Approximately 400 genes in the heart were also found to be strongly affected by various drugs whose known adverse effects are related to heart diseases and/or fear memory conditioning; these data support the reliability of our findings. Conclusions: TD-based unsupervised feature extraction turned out to be a useful method for gene selection and successfully identified possible genes causing PTSD-mediated heart diseases.
It has been known for decades that intracellular redox reactions control various vital functions in living systems, which include the synthesis of biomolecules, the modulation of protein functions, and cell signaling. Although there have been several reports on the control of such functions using DNA and RNA, the non-invasive optical control of biological functions is an important ongoing challenge. In this study, a hybrid of an electron donor-acceptor linked molecule based on a ferrocene(Fc)-porphyrin(ZnP)-fullerene(C60) analogue and an elaborately designed nano-carrier, referred to herein as a MITO-Porter, resulted in a successful photoinduced intermolecular electron transfer reaction via the long-lived intramolecular charge separation, leading to site-specific reductive reactions in the mitochondria of living HeLa cells. A Fc-ZnP-C60 linked molecule, 1-Oct, was designed and prepared for taking advantage of the unique photophysical properties with excellent efficiency (i.e. a long lifetime and a high quantum yield) for photoinduced charge separation. The targeted delivery of 1-Oct to mitochondria was accomplished by using a combination of the Fc-ZnP-C60 molecule and a drug delivery nano-carrier, MITO-Porter, that was recently established by our group for intracellular cargo delivery. The successful delivery of 1-Oct by the MITO-Porter permitted the optically-controlled generation of O2 - in the mitochondria of HeLa cells and the following induction of apoptosis as a cell signalling response was observed in confocal laser microscopy experiments. The obtained results indicate the use of an electron donor-acceptor system such as this can be a promising tool for the non-invasive triggering of redox-coupled cellular activities in living systems.
Background: Anti-microbial peptides (AMPs), naturally encoded by genes and generally containing 12-100 amino acids, are crucial components of the innate immune system and can protect the host from various pathogenic bacteria and viruses. In recent years, the widespread use of antibiotics has resulted in the rapid growth of antibiotic-resistant microorganisms that often induce critical infection and pathogenesis. Recently, the advent of high-throughput technologies has led molecular biology into a data surge in both the amount and scope of data. For instance, next-generation sequencing technology has been applied to generate large-scale sequencing reads from foods, water, soil, air, and specimens to identify microbiota and their functions based on metagenomics and metatranscriptomics, respectively. In addition, oolong tea is partially fermented and is the most widely produced tea in Taiwan. Many studies have shown the benefits of oolong tea in inhibiting obesity, reducing dental plaque deposition, antagonizing allergic immune responses, and alleviating the effects of aging. However, the microbes and their functions present in oolong tea remain unknown. Results: To understand the relationship between Taiwanese oolong teas and bacterial communities, we designed a novel bioinformatics scheme to identify AMPs and their functional types based on metagenomics and metatranscriptomic analysis of high-throughput transcriptome data. Four types of oolong teas (Dayuling tea, Alishan tea, Jinxuan tea, and Oriental Beauty tea) were subjected to 16S ribosomal DNA and total RNA extraction and sequencing. Metagenomics analysis results revealed that Oriental Beauty tea exhibited greater bacterial diversity than other teas. The most common bacterial families across all tea types were Bacteroidaceae (21.7%), Veillonellaceae (22%), and Fusobacteriaceae (12.3%). Metatranscriptomics analysis results revealed that the dominant bacteria species across all tea types were Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis, and Chryseobacterium sp. StRB126, which were subjected to further functional analysis. A total of 8194 (6.5%), 26,220 (6.1%), 5703 (5.8%), and 106,183 (7.8%) reads could be mapped to AMPs. Conclusion: We found that the distribution of anti-gram-positive and anti-gram-negative AMPs is highly correlated with the distribution of gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria in Taiwanese oolong tea samples.
Glioblastoma is the most common malignant tumor in central nervous system (CNS), and it is still insurmountable and has a poor prognosis. The proliferation and survival mechanism of glioma cells needs to be explored further for the development of glioma treatment. Hematopoietic-substrate-1 associated protein X-1 (HAX-1) has been reported as an anti-apoptosis protein that plays an important role in several malignant tumors. However, the effect and mechanism of HAX-1 in glioblastomas remains unknown. This study aimed to investigate the effect of HAX-1 in glioblastoma cells and explore the mechanism. The results of clone formation and Edu proliferation assay showed slower multiplication in HAX-1 knock-out cells. Flow cytometry showed cell cycle arrest mainly in G0/G1 phase. Apoptosis due to oxidative stress was increased after HAX-1 was knocked out. Western-blot assay exhibited that the levels of p21, Bax, and p53 proteins were significantly raised, and that the activation of the caspase cascade was enhanced in the absence of HAX-1. The degradation rate and ubiquitination of p53 declined because of the decrease in phosphorylation of proteins MDM2 and Akt1. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and immunefluorescent co-localization assays were performed to test the influence of HAX-1 on the interaction between Akt1 and Hsp90, which is crucial for the activity of Akt1. In conclusion, this novel study suggested that HAX-1 could affect the Akt1 pathway through Hsp90. The knock-out of HAX-1 leads to the inactivity of the Ak1t/MDM2 axis, which leads to increased levels of p53, and finally generates cell cycle arrest and results in the apoptosis of glioblastoma cells.
Different methods are being deployed for non-viral DNA/RNA delivery. However non-viral formulations for DNA/RNA-delivery are often accompanied by severe toxicity and thus low efficiency. Particular costly cell culture media are required as well. Here we introduce sapofection as a valuable enhancing method for non-viral DNA/RNA delivery. Sapofection is based on the application of DNA/RNA nanoplexes and sapofectosid, a plant derived natural transfection reagent. Sapofectosid was produced from plant raw material by chromatographic methods and characterized by tandem mass spectrometry and intensive one and two dimensional NMR-spectroscopy. Sapofectosid did enhance the transfection efficiency of different DNA- and RNA-nanoplexes formulated with liposomes, polyethylenimine (PEI) or targeted and non-targeted oligo-lysine peptides. All nanoplexes were characterized physicochemically and the influence of sapofectosid on the nanoplex integrity was determined by DNA complexation assays. The nanoplexes and sapofectosid were administered to a variety of cancer cell lines and the transfection efficiency was investigated by flow cytometry and confocal microscopy. Dependent on the cell line the transfection efficiencies varied from 6 to 76%. The saponin- and receptor-mediated endocytosis of nanoplexes was investigated by flow cytometry. As demonstrated by impedance based live cell imaging sapofection was non-toxic. The findings show the great potential of sapofection to be used as an effective and non-toxic transfection enhancing method.
In this article, we describe the applicability of a signal processing method, specifically the modified S-transform (MST) method, on RNA sequences to identify periodicities between 2 and 11. MicroRNAs (miRNA) are associated with gene regulation and gene silencing and thus have wide applications in biological sciences. Also, the functionality of miRNA is highly associated with its secondary structures (stem, bulge and loop). Signal processing methods have been previously applied on genomic data to reveal the periodicities that determine a wide variety of biological functions, ranging from exon detection to microsatellite identification in DNA sequences. However, there has been less focus on RNA-based signal processing. Here, we show that the signal processing method can be successfully applied to miRNA sequences. We observed that these periodicities are highly correlated with the secondary structure of miRNA and such methods could possibly be used as indicators of secondary and tertiary structure formation.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are single-stranded RNAs of 18-25 nucleotides that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. They are involved in many physiological and pathological processes, including cell proliferation, apoptosis, development and carcinogenesis. Because of the central role of miRNAs in the regulation of gene expression, their expression needs to be tightly controlled. Here, we summarize the different mechanisms of epigenetic regulation of miRNAs, with a particular focus on DNA methylation and histone modification.
Background: Knowledge on the capacity of Australian ticks to carry Borrelia species is currently limited or missing. To evaluate the potential of ticks to carry bacterial pathogens and their DNA, it is imperative to have a robust workflow that maximises recovery of bacterial DNA within ticks in order to enable accurate identification. By exploiting the bilateral anatomical symmetry of ticks, we were able to directly compare two DNA extraction methods for 16S rRNA gene diversity profiling and pathogen detection. We aimed to assess which combination of DNA extraction and 16S rRNA hypervariable region enables identification of the greatest bacterial diversity, whilst minimising bias, and providing the greatest capacity for the identification of Borrelia spp. Results: We collected Australian endemic ticks (Bothriocroton undatum), isolated DNA from equal tick halves using two commercial DNA extraction methods and sequenced samples using V1-V3 and V3-V4 16S rRNA gene diversity profiling assays. Two distinct Borrelia spp. operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were detected using the V1-V3 16S rRNA hypervariable region and matching Borrelia spp. sequences were obtained using a conventional nested-PCR. The tick 16S rRNA gene diversity profile was dominated by Rickettsia spp. (98-99%), while the remaining OTUs belonged to Proteobacteria (51-81%), Actinobacteria (6-30%) and Firmicutes (2-7%). Multiple comparisons tests demonstrated biases in each of the DNA extraction kits towards different bacterial taxa. Conclusions: Two distinct Borrelia species belonging to the reptile-associated Borrelia group were identified. Our results show that the method of DNA extraction can promote bias in the final microbiota identified. We determined an optimal DNA extraction method and 16S rRNA gene diversity profile assay that maximises detection of Borrelia species.
Background: Circular RNAs are a class of endogenous RNAs with various functions in eukaryotic cells. Worthy of note, circular RNAs play a critical role in cancer. Currently, nothing is known about their role in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). The identification of circular RNAs in HNSCC might become useful for diagnostic and therapeutic strategies in HNSCC. Results: Using samples from 115 HNSCC patients, we find that circPVT1 is over-expressed in tumors compared to matched non-tumoral tissues, with particular enrichment in patients with TP53 mutations. circPVT1 up- and down-regulation determine, respectively, an increase and a reduction of the malignant phenotype in HNSCC cell lines. We show that circPVT1 expression is transcriptionally enhanced by the mut-p53/YAP/TEAD complex. circPVT1 acts as an oncogene modulating the expression of miR-497-5p and genes involved in the control of cell proliferation. Conclusions: This study shows the oncogenic role of circPVT1 in HNSCC, extending current knowledge about the role of circular RNAs in cancer.
Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group. The mitochondrial DNA of Dichotomius (Luederwaldtinia) schiffleri was characterized and its phylogenetic position was reconstructed in Scarabaeoidea. This mitogenome presented 14,802 bp-long, richness in AT of 77.4% and 37 genes, including 13 protein-coding, 22 transfer RNAs, and two ribosomal RNAs. In addition, it was observed intergenic spacers and reading frame overlaps. The phylogenetic trees reconstructed from protein sequences provided best resolution, indicating Scarabaeinae and Aphodiinae as a sister groups, as previously reported in other molecular phylogenies.
Bacteria of the genus Pectobacterium are economically important plant pathogens that cause soft rot disease on a wide variety of plant species. Here, we report the genome sequence of Pectobacterium carotovorum strain SCC1, a Finnish soft rot model strain isolated from a diseased potato tuber in the early 1980's. The genome of strain SCC1 consists of one circular chromosome of 4,974,798bp and one circular plasmid of 5524bp. In total 4451 genes were predicted, of which 4349 are protein coding and 102 are RNA genes.
Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group. Tea green leafhopper, Empoasca onukii (Hemiptera: Cicadellidae), is one of the most serious pest insects in tea plantations in Asia. In this study, Mitogenome of this species was assembled with high coverage using Illumina sequencing data and the 15,167 bp length was acquired. The base composition is 38.1% for A, 11.2% for C, 10.5% for G, and 40.2% for T. The mitogenome includes 13 protein-coding genes, 22 transfer RNA, and two ribosomal RNA genes. The phylogeny showed that it is closely related to E. vitis with high bootstrap value supported. The complete mitogenome of E. onukii can provide essential DNA molecular data for further phylogenetic and evolutionary analysis.
Background: Diverse molecular alterations associated with smoking in normal and precursor lung cancer cells have been reported, yet their role in lung cancer etiology remains unclear. A prominent example is hypomethylation of the aryl hydrocarbon-receptor repressor (AHRR) locus, which is observed in blood and squamous epithelial cells of smokers, but not in lung cancer. Results: Using a novel systems-epigenomics algorithm, called SEPIRA, which leverages the power of a large RNA-sequencing expression compendium to infer regulatory activity from messenger RNA expression or DNA methylation (DNAm) profiles, we infer the landscape of binding activity of lung-specific transcription factors (TFs) in lung carcinogenesis. We show that lung-specific TFs become preferentially inactivated in lung cancer and precursor lung cancer lesions and further demonstrate that these results can be derived using only DNAm data. We identify subsets of TFs which become inactivated in precursor cells. Among these regulatory factors, we identify AHR, the aryl hydrocarbon-receptor which controls a healthy immune response in the lung epithelium and whose repressor, AHRR, has recently been implicated in smoking-mediated lung cancer. In addition, we identify FOXJ1, a TF which promotes growth of airway cilia and effective clearance of the lung airway epithelium from carcinogens. Conclusions: We identify TFs, such as AHR, which become inactivated in the earliest stages of lung cancer and which, unlike AHRR hypomethylation, are also inactivated in lung cancer itself. The novel systems-epigenomics algorithm SEPIRA will be useful to the wider epigenome-wide association study community as a means of inferring regulatory activity.
Clinical practice and experimental studies have shown the necessity of sufficient quantities of folic acid intake for normal embryogenesis and fetal development in the prevention of neural tube defects (NTDs) and neurological malformations. So, women of childbearing age must be sure to have an adequate folate intake periconceptionally, prior to and during pregnancy. Folic acid fortification of all enriched cereal grain product flour has been implemented in many countries. Thus, hundreds of thousands of people have been exposed to an increased intake of folic acid. Folate plays an essential role in the biosynthesis of methionine. Methionine is the principal aminopropyl donor required for polyamine biosynthesis, which is up-regulated in actively growing cells, including cancer cells. Folates are important in RNA and DNA synthesis, DNA stability and integrity. Clinical and epidemiological evidence links folate deficiency to DNA damage and cancer. On the other hand, long-term folate oversupplementation leads to adverse toxic effects, resulting in the appearance of malignancy. Considering the relationship of polyamines and rapidly proliferating tissues (especially cancers), there is a need for better investigation of the relationship between the ingestion of high amounts of folic acid in food supplementation and polyamine metabolism, related to malignant processes in the human body.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. Among the various advantages of aptamers over antibodies, remarkable is their ability to tolerate a large number of chemical modifications within their backbone or at the termini without losing significant activity. Indeed, aptamers can be easily equipped with a wide variety of reporter groups or coupled to different carriers, nanoparticles, or other biomolecules, thus producing valuable molecular recognition tools effective for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. This review reports an updated overview on fluorescent DNA aptamers, designed to recognize significant cancer biomarkers both in soluble or membrane-bound form. In many examples, the aptamer secondary structure switches induced by target recognition are suitably translated in a detectable fluorescent signal using either fluorescently-labelled or label-free aptamers. The fluorescence emission changes, producing an enhancement (“signal-on”) or a quenching (“signal-off”) effect, directly reflect the extent of the binding, thereby allowing for quantitative determination of the target in bioanalytical assays. Furthermore, several aptamers conjugated to fluorescent probes proved to be effective for applications in tumour diagnosis and intraoperative surgery, producing tumour-type specific, non-invasive in vivo imaging tools for cancer pre- and post-treatment assessment.
Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group. The complete mitochondrial genome sequenced and analyzed from a black garbage fly, Hydrotaea ignava which is critically important species for forensic investigations. The size of mitochondrial genome is 17,026 bp with 40.8% A, 11.2% C, 8.2% G and 39.8% T distribution. This is the longest within complete mitochondrial genome records of the Muscidae species. The mitochondrial genome is composed of 13 protein coding, two ribosomal RNA and 22 tRNA genes and a putative control region. Furthermore, phylogenetic relationships of the superfamily Muscoidea evaluated due to mitochondrial protein coding genes. The results showed that the H. ignava placed in the paraphyletic Muscidae family and early diverged from a clade including Muscidae, Anthomyiidae and Scathophagidae species. This is the first complete mitochondrial genome for the genus Hydrotaea.
Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group. The complete mitochondrial DNA sequence of the South America fur seal (Arctocephalus australis) was obtained by a shotgun sequencing approach. The mitogenome is 16,372 bp in length and includes the genes coding for the two rRNA species (12S and 16S), 13 protein-coding genes, 22 transfer RNA genes, and a control region. The base composition is 33.0% for A, 26.7% for C, 26.1 for T and 14.2% for G, with an overall GC content of 40.9%. The description of this mitogenome will be useful for further phylogeny and genetic studies on Pinnipeds.
Stefański Institute of Parasitology, PAS 2017. Acanthamoeba spp. are free-living amoebae which are ubiquitously distributed worldwide and can be found in the wide range of environments, particularly in various types of water sources, where they able to cause important health problems. In the present study, cultures containing Acanthamoeba from water samples were obtained from our earlier survey. For an analysis of the genetic pattern of Acanthamoeba isolates, DNA sequencing of nuclear small-subunit rRNA gene (18S rRNA or Rns) was applied. A phylogenetic analyses of the isolates displayed that all of them were belonged to the potentially pathogenic T4 genotype. This investigation provides further evidence that the T4 genotype is the most prevalent in water samples and demonstrates that there is a need for taking more consideration to water sources in order to prevent complications associated with pathogenic Acanthamoeba spp.
KGaA, WeinheimRecent advances and applications of biomolecule-responsive hydrogels, namely, glucose-responsive hydrogels, protein-responsive hydrogels, and nucleic-acid-responsive hydrogels are highlighted. However, achieving the ultimate purpose of using biomolecule-responsive hydrogels in preclinical and clinical areas is still at the very early stage and calls for more novel designing concepts and advance ideas. On the way toward the real/clinical application of biomolecule-responsive hydrogels, plenty of factors should be extensively studied and examined under both in vitro and in vivo conditions. For example, biocompatibility, biointegration, and toxicity of biomolecule-responsive hydrogels should be carefully evaluated. From the living body's point of view, biocompatibility is seriously depended on the interactions at the tissue/polymer interface. These interactions are influenced by physical nature, chemical structure, surface properties, and degradation of the materials. In addition, the developments of advanced hydrogels with tunable biological and mechanical properties which cause no/low side effects are of great importance.
To investigate the molecular toxicity of diclofenac sodium to Bacillus thuringiensis, the iTRAQ quantitative proteomics technique was used to identify and quantify the protein expression of this species. The results showed that diclofenac sodium had a significant inhibitory effect on the growth of B. thuringiensis. Seventeen proteins were differentially expressed. Among these proteins, 5up-regulated ones were mainly involved in fatty acid biosynthesis, DNA and RNA synthesis, while 12down-regulated proteins were primarily associated with oxidative phosphorylation, pyruvate metabolism, glycolytic pathway, pentose phosphate pathway and amino acid metabolism. Functional analysis revealed that diclofenac inhibited the growth of B. thuringiensis by affecting cell metabolism, cellular composition and protein catalysis. In the interaction network of differentially expressed proteins, RpoA, RplM, RplL, Tuf, InfA were the key nodes in the network interacting closely for cellular regulation. The results indicated that diclofenac sodium could affect multiple metabolic pathways and interfere with different biological processes. These findings revealed the molecular toxicity of diclofenac sodium, and provided important references for the further evaluation of diclofenac sodium on the ecological security and human health.
Background: Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is one of the 10 most incident cancer types in the world, and it is mainly associated with tobacco and alcohol consumption. ESCC mortality rates stand very close to its incidence, which is a direct consequence of a late diagnosis and an inefficient treatment. Although this scenery is quite alarming, the major molecular alterations that drive this carcinogenesis process remain unclear. We have previously shown through the first ESCC methylome analysis that TFF1 promoter is frequently hypermethylated in ESCC. Here, to evaluate TFF1 methylation as a potential biomarker of early ESCC diagnosis, we investigated the status of TFF1 promoter methylation and its expression in ESSC and histologically normal tumor surrounding tissue of ESCC patients in comparison to healthy esophagus of non-cancer individuals. Results: Analysis of TFF1 promoter methylation, and gene and protein expression in 65 ESCC patients and 88 controls revealed that TFF1 methylation levels were already increased in histologically normal tumor surrounding tissue of ESCC patients when compared to healthy esophagus of non-cancer individuals. This increase in DNA methylation was followed by the reduction of TFF1 mRNA expression. Interestingly, TFF1 expression was capable of distinguishing tumor surrounding normal tissue from normal mucosa of healthy individuals with 92% accuracy. In addition, TFF1 protein was undetectable both in tumor and surrounding mucosa by immunohistochemistry, while submucosa glands of the healthy esophagus showed positive staining. Furthermore, treatment of TE-1 and TE-13 ESCC cell lines with decitabine led to a reduction of promoter methylation and consequent upregulation of TFF1 gene and protein expression. Finally, using TCGA data we showed that TFF1 loss is observed in ESCC, but not in esophageal adenocarcinoma, highlighting the different molecular mechanisms involved in the development of each histological subtype of esophageal cancer. Conclusions: This study shows that TFF1 expression is silenced in early phases of ESCC development, which seems to be mediated at least in part by promoter hypermethylation, and provides the basis for the use of TFF1 expression as a potential biomarker for early ESCC detection.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, SwitzerlandTight regulation of inflammation is very important to guarantee a balanced immune response without developing chronic inflammation. One of the major mediators of the resolution of inflammation is the transcription factor: the nuclear factor erythroid 2-like 2 (Nrf2). Stabilized following oxidative stress, Nrf2 induces the expression of antioxidants as well as cytoprotective genes, which provoke an anti-inflammatory expression profile, and is crucial for the initiation of healing. In view of this fundamental modulatory role, it is clear that both hyper- or hypoactivation of Nrf2 contribute to the onset of chronic diseases. Understanding the tight regulation of Nrf2 expression/activation and its interaction with signaling pathways, known to affect inflammatory processes, will facilitate development of therapeutic approaches to prevent Nrf2 dysregulation and ameliorate chronic inflammatory diseases. We discuss in this review the principle mechanisms of Nrf2 regulation with a focus on inflammation and autophagy, extending the role of dysregulated Nrf2 to chronic diseases and tumor development.
Brain aging and neurodegeneration are associated with prominent microglial reactivity and activation of innate immune response pathways, commonly referred to as neuroinflammation. One such pathway, the type I interferon response, recognizes viral or mitochondrial DNA in the cytoplasm via activation of the recently discovered cyclic dinucleotide synthetase cGAS and the cyclic dinucleotide receptor STING. Here we show that the FDA-approved antiviral drug ganciclovir (GCV) induces a type I interferon response independent of its canonical thymidine kinase target. Inhibition of components of the STING pathway, including STING, IRF3, Tbk1, extracellular IFNβ, and the Jak-Stat pathway resulted in reduced activity of GCV and its derivatives. Importantly, functional STING was necessary for GCV to inhibit inflammation in cultured myeloid cells and in a mouse model of multiple sclerosis. Collectively, our findings uncover an unexpected new activity of GCV and identify the STING pathway as a regulator of microglial reactivity and neuroinflammation. Mathur et al. describe a non-canonical function of the antiviral drug ganciclovir in microglia. Ganciclovir induces a type I interferon response and reduces neuroinflammation in a mouse model of multiple sclerosis. The innate immune adaptor STING is required for this activity of ganciclovir.
Background: NRTIs-sparing regimens exert favourable profiles on T-cell homeostasis associated parameters. Our aim was to analyze the effect of NRTIs sparing regimen (NRTI-sparing-cART) vs NRTIs-containing regimen (NRTI-cART), on T-cell homeostasis associated parameters in naive HIV-infected patients. Methods: Biomarkers of cell survival (CD127) and replicative senescence (CD57), were measured by multiparametric flow cytometry for T-cell phenotyping on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) samples just before (baseline) and after 48 weeks of undetectable viral load in patients on NRTI-sparing-cART (N = 13) and NRTI-cART (N = 14). After 48 weeks a subgroup of patients (n = 5) on NRTI-cART switched to NRTI-sparing-cART for another additional 48 weeks. In vitro assays were performed on PBMCs from HIV-uninfected healthy donors exposed or not to HIV. To analyze the independent factors associated with type of cART bivariate and stepwise multivariate analysis were performed after adjusting for basal CD4+, CD8+ and nadir CD4+ T-cell counts. Results: After 48 weeks of a NRTI-sparing-cART vs NRTI-cART patients have higher effector memory (EM) CD4+ CD127+ T-cell levels, lower EM CD4+ CD57+ T-cell levels, higher CD8+ CD127+ T-cell levels, lower CD8+ CD57+ T-cell levels and higher memory CD8+ T-cell levels. This effect was confirmed in the subgroup of patients who switched to NRTI-sparing-cART. In vitro assays confirmed that the deleterious effect of a NRTIs-containing regimen was due to NRTIs. Conclusions: The implementation of NRTI-sparing regimens, with a favourable profile in CD127 and CD57 T-cell expression, could benefit cART-patients. These results could have potential implications in a decrease in the number of Non-AIDS events.
Significant progress is being made in the development of the next generation of low cost life detection instrumentation with much smaller size, mass and energy requirements. Here, we describe in situ life detection and sequencing in the field in soils over laying ice wedges in polygonal permafrost terrain on Axel Heiberg Island, located in the Canadian high Arctic (79°26'N), an analog to the polygonal permafrost terrain observed on Mars. The life detection methods used here include (1) the cryo-iPlate for culturing microorganisms using diffusion of in situ nutrients into semi-solid media (2) a Microbial Activity Microassay (MAM) plate (BIOLOG Ecoplate) for detecting viable extant microorganisms through a colourimetric assay, and (3) the Oxford Nanopore MinION for nucleic acid detection and sequencing of environmental samples and the products of MAM plate and cryo-iPlate. We obtained 39 microbial isolates using the cryo-iPlate, which included several putatively novel strains based on the 16S rRNA gene, including a Pedobacter sp. (96% closest similarity in GenBank) which we partially genome sequenced using the MinION. The MAM plate successfully identified an active community capable of L-serine metabolism, which was used for metagenomic sequencing with the MinION to identify the active and enriched community. A metagenome on environmental ice wedge soil samples was completed, with base calling and uplink/downlink carried out via satellite internet. Validation of MinION sequencing using the Illumina MiSeq platform was consistent with the results obtained with the MinION. The instrumentation and technology utilized here is pre-existing, low cost, low mass, low volume, and offers the prospect of equipping micro-rovers and micro-penetrators with aggressive astrobiological capabilities. Since potentially habitable astrobiology targets have been identified (RSLs on Mars, near subsurface water ice on Mars, the plumes and oceans of Europa and Enceladus), future astrobiology missions will certainly target these areas and there is a need for direct life detection instrumentation.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. Genome editing tools have the potential to change the genomic architecture of a genome at precise locations, with desired accuracy. These tools have been efﬁciently used for trait discovery and for the generation of plants with high crop yields and resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses. Due to complex genomic architecture, it is challenging to edit all of the genes/genomes using a particular genome editing tool. Therefore, to overcome this challenging task, several genome editing tools have been developed to facilitate efﬁcient genome editing. Some of the major genome editing tools used to edit plant genomes are: Homologous recombination (HR), zinc ﬁnger nucleases (ZFNs), transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs), pentatricopeptide repeat proteins (PPRs), the CRISPR/Cas9 system, RNA interference (RNAi), cisgenesis, and intragenesis. In addition, site-directed sequence editing and oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis have the potential to edit the genome at the single-nucleotide level. Recently, adenine base editors (ABEs) have been developed to mutate A-T base pairs to G-C base pairs. ABEs use deoxyadeninedeaminase (TadA) with catalytically impaired Cas9 nickase to mutate A-T base pairs to G-C base pairs.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
The majority of endosperm genes are expressed in a 2:1 maternal:paternal ratio, reflecting genomic DNA content. Here, we find that the 2:1 transcriptional ratio is, unexpectedly, actively regulated. In A. thaliana and A. lyrata, endosperm 24-nt small RNAs are reduced in transposable elements and enriched in genes compared with the embryo. We find an inverse relationship between the parent of origin of sRNAs and mRNAs, with genes more likely to be associated with maternally than paternally biased sRNAs. Disruption of the Pol IV sRNA pathway causes a shift toward maternal allele mRNA expression for many genes. Furthermore, paternal inheritance of an RNA Pol IV mutation is sufficient to rescue seed abortion caused by excess paternal genome dosage. Thus, RNA Pol IV mediates the transcriptional balance between maternally and paternally inherited genomes in endosperm. The endosperm is a triploid seed tissue critical for seed viability. Imprinted expression occurs there, but whether active regulation of maternal:paternal transcript ratios occurs on a broader scale is unknown. Erdmann et al. show that the RNA Pol IV small RNA pathway mediates dosage interactions between maternal and paternal genomes.
Aberrant DNA methylation patterns, including global hypomethylation and regional hypermethylation, are associated with cancer and implicated in oncogenic events. How DNA methylation is regulated in developmental and cellular processes and dysregulated in cancer is poorly understood. Here, we show that PRMT6, a protein arginine methyltransferase responsible for asymmetric dimethylation of histone H3 arginine 2 (H3R2me2a), negatively regulates DNA methylation and that PRMT6 upregulation contributes to global DNA hypomethylation in cancer. Mechanistically, PRMT6 overexpression impairs chromatin association of UHRF1, an accessory factor of DNMT1, resulting in passive DNA demethylation. The effect is likely due to elevated H3R2me2a, which inhibits the interaction between UHRF1 and histone H3. Our work identifies a mechanistic link between protein arginine methylation and DNA methylation, which is disrupted in cancer. Veland et al. find that PRMT6, an arginine methyltransferase responsible for histone H3 arginine 2 (H3R2) methylation, negatively regulates maintenance DNA methylation by impairing UHRF1 recruitment to chromatin. The authors also find that PRMT6 upregulation contributes to global DNA hypomethylation in cancer cells.
Various viruses leave their sequences in the host genomes during infection. Such events occur mainly in retrovirus infection but also sometimes in DNA and non-retroviral RNA virus infections. If viral sequences are integrated into the genomes of germ line cells, the sequences can become inherited as endogenous viral elements (EVEs). The integration events of viral sequences may have oncogenic potential. Because proviral integrations of some retroviruses and/or reactivation of endogenous retroviruses are closely linked to cancers, viral insertions related to non-retroviral viruses also possibly contribute to cancer development. This article focuses on genomic viral sequences derived from two non-retroviral viruses, whose endogenization is already reported, and discusses their possible contributions to cancer. Viral insertions of hepatitis B virus play roles in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. Endogenous bornavirus-like elements, the only non-retroviral RNA virus-related EVEs found in the human genome, may also be involved in cancer formation. In addition, the possible contribution of the interactions between viruses and retrotransposons, which seem to be a major driving force for generating EVEs related to non-retroviral RNA viruses, to cancers will be discussed. Future studies regarding the possible links described here may open a new avenue for the development of novel therapeutics for tumor virus-related cancers and/or provide novel insights into EVE functions.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Appropriate intracellular SAM levels must be maintained, because methyltransferase reaction rates can be limited by SAM availability. In response to SAM depletion, MAT2A, which encodes a ubiquitous mammalian methionine adenosyltransferase isozyme, was upregulated through mRNA stabilization. SAM-depletion reduced N6-methyladenosine (m6A) in the 3′ UTR of MAT2A. In vitro reactions using recombinant METTL16 revealed multiple, conserved methylation targets in the 3′ UTR. Knockdown of METTL16 and the m6A reader YTHDC1 abolished SAM-responsive regulation of MAT2A. Mutations of the target adenine sites of METTL16 within the 3′ UTR revealed that these m6As were redundantly required for regulation. MAT2A mRNA methylation by METTL16 is read by YTHDC1, and we suggest that this allows cells to monitor and maintain intracellular SAM levels. Shima et al. find that MAT2A mRNA is stabilized upon depletion of intracellular S-adenosylmethionine (SAM). This regulation involves m6A modification in the 3′ UTR, the m6A writer METTL16, and the reader YTHDC1. Additionally, the authors show that multiple specific sites in hairpin regions of the 3′ UTR are targeted by METTL16.
To identify effector proteins that mediate this function, we performed mass spectrometry on N-MYC complexes in neuroblastoma cells. The analysis shows that N-MYC forms complexes with TFIIIC, TOP2A, and RAD21, a subunit of cohesin. N-MYC and TFIIIC bind to overlapping sites in thousands of Pol II promoters and intergenic regions. TFIIIC promotes association of RAD21 with N-MYC target sites and is required for N-MYC-dependent promoter escape and pause release of Pol II. Aurora-A competes with binding of TFIIIC and RAD21 to N-MYC in vitro and antagonizes association of TOP2A, TFIIIC, and RAD21 with N-MYC during S phase, blocking N-MYC-dependent release of Pol II from the promoter. Inhibition of Aurora-A in S phase restores RAD21 and TFIIIC binding to chromatin and partially restores N-MYC-dependent transcriptional elongation. We propose that complex formation with Aurora-A controls N-MYC function during the cell cycle. Büchel et al. demonstrate that N-MYC forms complexes with TFIIIC, TOP2A, and RAD21. Aurora-A competes with TFIIIC and RAD21 for binding to N-MYC, and Aurora-A displaces the three proteins from N-MYC during S phase. As consequence, N-MYC-dependent pause release is inhibited during S phase, preventing activation of the ATR checkpoint kinase.
Here, we observe that the splicing factor SRSF1 regulates DBF4B exon6 splicing by specifically binding and promoting its inclusion. Knockdown of the exon6-containing isoform (DBF4B-FL) significantly inhibits the tumorigenic potential of colon cancer cells in vitro and in mice, and SRSF1 inactivation phenocopies DBF4B-FL depletion. DBF4B-FL and SRSF1 are required for cancer cell proliferation and for the maintenance of genomic stability. Overexpression of DBF4B-FL can protect against DNA damage induced by SRSF1 knockdown and rescues growth defects in SRSF1-depleted cells. Increased DBF4B exon6 inclusion parallels SRSF1 upregulation in clinical colorectal cancer samples. Taken together, our findings identify SRSF1 as a key regulator of DBF4B pre-mRNA splicing dysregulation in colon cancer, with possible clinical implications as candidate prognostic factors in cancer patients. Chen et al. find that SRSF1 is a key regulator of DBF4B pre-mRNA splicing in colon cancer cells and demonstrates that SRSF1 prevents DNA damage and promotes tumorigenesis through its regulation of a DBF4B-FL splice variant.
Here, we show the synergy of BET bromodomain inhibition with PARP inhibition in BRCA-proficient ovarian cancers due to mitotic catastrophe. Treatment of BRCA-proficient ovarian cancer cells with the BET inhibitor JQ1 downregulated the G2-M cell-cycle checkpoint regulator WEE1 and the DNA-damage response factor TOPBP1. Combining PARP inhibitor Olaparib with the BET inhibitor, we observed a synergistic increase in DNA damage and checkpoint defects, which allowed cells to enter mitosis despite the accumulation of DNA damage, ultimately causing mitotic catastrophe. Moreover, JQ1 and Olaparib showed synergistic suppression of growth of BRCA-proficient cancer in vivo in a xenograft ovarian cancer mouse model. Our findings indicate that a combination of BET inhibitor and PARP inhibitor represents a potential therapeutic strategy for BRCA-proficient cancers. Karakashev et al. show synergy of BET bromodomain inhibition with PARP inhibition in BRCA-proficient ovarian cancers. This combination of inhibitors can synergistically increase DNA damage and cell-cycle checkpoint defects, which allows cells to enter mitosis despite the accumulation of DNA damage, ultimately causing mitotic catastrophe.
The mechanisms underlying tick resistance within and between cattle breeds have been studied for decades. Several previous papers on bovine immune parameters contributing to tick resistance discussed findings across DNA, RNA, protein, cellular, and tissue levels. However, the differences between bovine host species, tick species and the experimental layouts were not always taken into account. This review aims to (a) give a comprehensive summary of studies investigating immune marker differences between cattle breeds with varying degrees of tick resistance, and (b) to integrate key findings and suggest hypotheses on likely immune-regulated pathways driving resistance. Experimental issues, which may have skewed conclusions, are highlighted. In future, improved experimental strategies will enable more focused studies to identify and integrate immune markers and/or pathways. Most conclusive thus far is the involvement of histamine, granulocytes and their associated pathways in the tick-resistance mechanism. Interestingly, different immune markers might be involved in the mechanisms within a single host breed in contrast to between breeds. Also, differences are evident at each tick life stage, limiting the level to which datasets can be compared. Future studies to further elucidate immune molecule dynamics across the entire tick life cycle and in-depth investigation of promising markers and pathways on both molecular and cellular level are in dire need to obtain a scientifically sound hypothesis on the drivers of tick resistance.
Aerolysin protein pore has been widely used for sensing peptides and proteins. However, only a few groups explored this nanopore for nucleic acids detection. The challenge is the extremely low capture efficiency for nucleic acids (>10 bases), which severely lowers the sensitivity of an aerolysin-based genetic biosensor. Here we reported a simple and easy-to-operate approach to noncovalently transform aerolysin into a highly nucleic acids-sensitive nanopore. Through a remote pH-modulation mechanism, we simply lower the pH on one side of the pore, then aerolysin is immediately "activated" and enabled to capture target DNA/RNA efficiently from the opposite side of the pore. This mechanism also decelerates DNA translocation, a desired property for sequencing and gene detection, allowing temporal separation of DNAs in different lengths. This method provides insight into the nanopore engineering for biosensing, making aerolysin applicable in genetic and epigenetic detections of long nucleic acids.
Background: Global as well as specific expression profiles of selected rat tissues were characterized to assess the safety of genetically modified (GM) maize MON810 containing the insecticidal protein Cry1Ab. Gene expression was evaluated by use of Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) as well as RT-qPCR within rat intestinal tissues based on mandatory 90-day rodent feeding studies. In parallel to two 90-day feeding studies, the transcriptional response of rat tissues was assessed as another endpoint to enhance the mechanistic interpretation of GM feeding studies and/or to facilitate the generation of a targeted hypothesis. Rats received diets containing 33% GM maize (MON810) or near-isogenic control maize. As a site of massive exposure to ingested feed the transcriptomic response of ileal and colonic tissue was profiled via RT-qPCR arrays targeting apoptosis, DNA-damage/repair, unfolded protein response (UPR). For global RNA profiling of rat ileal tissue, we applied NGS. Results: No biological response to the GM-diet was observed in male and in female rat tissues. Transcriptome wide analysis of gene expression by RNA-seq confirmed these findings. Nevertheless, gene ontology (GO) analysis clearly associated a set of distinctly regulated transcripts with circadian rhythms. We confirmed differential expression of circadian clock genes using RT-qPCR and immunoassays for selected factors, thereby indicating physiological effects caused by the time point of sampling. Conclusion: Prediction of potential unintended effects of GM-food/feed by transcriptome based profiling of intestinal tissue presents a novel approach to complement classical toxicological testing procedures. Including the detection of alterations in signaling pathways in toxicity testing procedures may enhance the confidence in outcomes of toxicological trials. In this study, no significant GM-related changes in intestinal expression profiles were found in rats fed GM-maize MON810. Relevant alterations of selected cellular pathways (apoptosis, DNA damage and repair, UPR) pointing toward intestinal toxicity of the diets were not observed. Transcriptomic profiles did not reveal perturbations of pathways associated with toxicity, underlining the study results revealed by classical OECD endpoints.
Geodermatophilaceae (order Geodermatophilales, class Actinobacteria) form a comparatively isolated family within the phylum Actinobacteria and harbor many strains adapted to extreme ecological niches and tolerant against reactive oxygen species. Clarifying the evolutionary history of Geodermatophilaceae was so far mainly hampered by the insufficient resolution of the main phylogenetic marker in use, the 16S rRNA gene. In conjunction with the taxonomic characterisation of a motile and aerobic strain, designated YIM M13156T and phylogenetically located within the family, we here carried out a phylogenetic analysis of the genome sequences now available for the type strains of Geodermatophilaceae and re-analyzed the previously assembled phenotypic data. The results indicated that the largest genus, Geodermatophilus, is not monophyletic, hence the arrangement of the genera of Geodermatophilaceae must be reconsidered. Taxonomic markers such as polar lipids and fatty-acids profile, cellular features and temperature ranges are indeed heterogeneous within Geodermatophilus. In contrast to previous studies, we also address which of these features can be interpreted as apomorphies of which taxon, according to the principles of phylogenetic systematics. We thus propose a novel genus, Klenkia, with the type species Klenkia marina sp. nov. and harboring four species formerly assigned to Geodermatophilus, G. brasiliensis, G. soli, G. taihuensis, and G. terrae. Emended descriptions of all species of Geodermatophilaceae are provided for which type-strain genome sequences are publicly available. Our study again demonstrates that the principles of phylogenetic systematics can and should guide the interpretation of both genomic and phenotypic data.
The gut microbiome of lower termites comprises protists and bacteria that help these insects to digest cellulose and to thrive on wood. The composition of the termite gut microbiome correlates with phylogenetic distance of the animal host and host ecology (diet) in termites collected from their natural environment. However, carryover of transient microbes from host collection sites are an experimental concern and might contribute to the ecological imprints on the termite gut microbiome. Here, we set out to test whether an ecological imprint on the termite gut microbiome remains, when focusing on the persistent microbiome. Therefore, we kept five termite species under strictly controlled dietary conditions and subsequently profiled their protist and bacterial gut microbial communities using 18S and 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. The species differed in their ecology; while three of the investigated species were wood-dwellers that feed on the piece of wood they live in and never leave except for the mating flight, the other two species were foragers that regularly leave their nests to forage for food. Despite these prominent ecological differences, protist microbiome structure aligned with phylogenetic relatedness of termite host species. Conversely, bacterial communities seemed more flexible, suggesting that microbiome structure aligned more strongly with the foraging and wood-dwelling ecologies. Interestingly, protist and bacterial community alpha-diversity correlated, suggesting either putative interactions between protists and bacteria, or that both types of microbes in the termite gut follow shared structuring principles. Taken together, our results add to the notion that bacterial communities are more variable over evolutionary time than protist communities and might react more flexibly to changes in host ecology.
Acidithiobacillus thiooxidansCLST is an extremely acidophilic gamma-proteobacteria that was isolated from the Gorbea salt flat, an acidic hypersaline environment in northern Chile. This kind of environment is considered a terrestrial analog of ancient Martian terrains and a source of new material for biotechnological applications. A. thiooxidansplays a key role in industrial bioleaching; it has the capacity of generating and maintaining acidic conditions by producing sulfuric acid and it can also remove sulfur layers from the surface of minerals, which are detrimental for their dissolution. CLST is a strain of A. thiooxidansable to tolerate moderate chloride concentrations (up to 15 g L-1 Cl-), a feature that is quite unusual in extreme acidophilic microorganisms. Basic microbiological features and genomic properties of this biotechnologically relevant strain are described in this work. The 3,974,949 bp draft genome is arranged into 40 scaffolds of 389 contigs containing 3866 protein-coding genes and 75 RNAs encoding genes. This is the first draft genome of a halotolerant A. thiooxidansstrain. The release of the genome sequence of this strain improves representation of these extreme acidophilic Gram negative bacteria in public databases and strengthens the framework for further investigation of the physiological diversity and ecological function of A. thiooxidans populations.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. Increased access to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) by human immunodeficiency virus postive (HIV+) individuals has become a reality worldwide. In Brazil, HAART currently reaches over half of HIV-infected subjects. In the context of a remarkable HIV-1 genetic variability, highly related variants, called quasispecies, are generated. HIV quasispecies generated during infection can influence virus persistence and pathogenicity, representing a challenge to treatment. However, the clinical relevance of minority quasispecies is still uncertain. In this study, we have determined the archived proviral sequences, viral subtype and drug resistance mutations from a cohort of HIV+ patients with undetectable viral load undergoing HAART as first-line therapy using next-generation sequencing for near full-length virus genome (NFLG) assembly. HIV-1 consensus sequences representing NFLG were obtained for eleven patients, while for another twelve varying genome coverage rates were obtained. Phylogenetic analysis showed the predominance of subtype B (83%, 19/23). Considering the minority variants, 18 patients carried archived virus harboring at least one mutation conferring antiretroviral resistance, for six patients, the mutations correlated with the current ARVs used. These data highlight the importance of monitoring HIV minority drug resistant variants and their clinical impact, to guide future regimen switches and improve HIV treatment success.
The deep sea is one of the largest but least understood ecosystems on earth. Knowledge about the diversity and distribution patterns as well as drivers of microbial eukaryote (including ciliates) along the water column, particularly below the photic zone, is scarce. In this study, we investigated the diversity of pelagic ciliates, the main group of marine microeukaryotes, their vertical distribution from the surface to the abyssopelagic zone, as well as their horizontal distribution over a distance of 1,300 km in the Western Pacific Ocean, using high-throughput DNA and cDNA (complementary DNA) sequencing. No distance-decay relationship could be detected along the horizontal scale; instead, a distinct vertical distribution within the ciliate communities was revealed. The alpha diversity of the ciliate communities in the deep chlorophyll maximum (DCM) and the 200 m layer turned out to be significantly higher compared with the other water layers. The ciliate communities in the 200 m water layer appeared to be more similar to those in deeper layers from 1,000 m to about 5,000 m than to the surface and DCM ciliate communities. Dominant species in the bathypelagic and abyssopelagic zone, particularly some parasites, were also detected in the 200 m layer, but were almost absent in the surface layer. The 200 m layer, therefore, seems to be an important "species bank" for deep ocean layers. Statistical analyses further revealed significant effects of temperature and chlorophyll a on the partitioning of ciliate diversity, indicating that environmental factors are a stronger force in shaping marine pelagic ciliate communities than the geographic distance.
Background: Feature selection and prediction are the most important tasks for big data mining. The common strategies for feature selection in big data mining are L 1, SCAD and MC+. However, none of the existing algorithms optimizes L 0, which penalizes the number of nonzero features directly. Results: In this paper, we develop a novel sparse generalized linear model (GLM) with L 0 approximation for feature selection and prediction with big omics data. The proposed approach approximate the L 0 optimization directly. Even though the original L 0 problem is non-convex, the problem is approximated by sequential convex optimizations with the proposed algorithm. The proposed method is easy to implement with only several lines of code. Novel adaptive ridge algorithms (L 0ADRIDGE) for L 0 penalized GLM with ultra high dimensional big data are developed. The proposed approach outperforms the other cutting edge regularization methods including SCAD and MC+ in simulations. When it is applied to integrated analysis of mRNA, microRNA, and methylation data from TCGA ovarian cancer, multilevel gene signatures associated with suboptimal debulking are identified simultaneously. The biological significance and potential clinical importance of those genes are further explored. Conclusions: The developed Software L 0ADRIDGE in MATLAB is available at https://github.com/liuzqx/L0adridge.
High-pressure (HP) environments represent the largest volumetric majority of habitable space for microorganisms on the planet, including the deep-sea and subsurface biosphere. However, the importance of pressure as an environmental variable affecting deep microbial life and their biogeochemical functions in carbon cycling still remains poorly understood. Here, we designed a new high-volume HP-sediment core sampler that is deployable on the payload of a remotely operated vehicle and can maintain in situ HP conditions throughout multi-month enrichment incubations including daily amendments with liquid media and gases and daily effluent sampling for geochemical or microbiological analysis. Using the HP core device, we incubated sediment and overlying water associated with methane hydrate-exposed on the seafloor of the Joetsu Knoll, Japan, at 10 MPa and 4°C for 45 days in the laboratory. Diversity analyses based on 16S rRNA and methane-related functional genes, as well as carbon isotopic analysis of methane and bicarbonate, indicated the stimulation of both aerobic and anaerobic methanotrophy driven by members of the Methylococcales, and ANME, respectively: i.e., aerobic methanotrophy was observed upon addition of oxygen whereas anaerobic processes subsequently occurred after oxygen consumption. These laboratory-measured rates at 10 MPa were generally in agreement with previously reported rates of methane oxidation in other oceanographic locations.
DNA methylation microarray data GSE38240 containing 8 prostate cancer metastases and 4 normal prostate samples as well as gene expression profile data GSE26910 containing 6 prostate primary tumors and 6 normal samples were used. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differently methylated sites of PC were screened and the regulatory network was constructed with DEGs-related transcription factors (TFs). The obtained hub genes were subjected to protein-protein interaction network analysis. Enrichment analysis of down-regulated DEGs were performed. Total 351 DEGs including 190 down-regulated and 161 up-regulated genes and 3234 differently methylated sites were identified. In total 69 DEGs-related TFs were found. Regulatory network contained 1301 nodes and 2527 connection pairs and that FOXA1 (forkhead box A1), BZRAP1-AS1 (benzodiazapine receptor associated protein 1 antisense RNA 1) and KRT8 (keratin 8) were the top three nodes of it. The enriched GO terms were mainly biological activity of the blood and cells-related. Total 29 DEGs (such as AGTR1, angiotensin II receptor, type 1) and 57 none-DEGs involved in the PPI network. Biological functions in blood circulation and the involved AGTR1 may play important roles in PC by gene-methylation. Besides, BZRAP1-AS1 may be novel biomarker related with PC.
Background: Prospective studies have shown that 80% of acute hepatitis C virus (HCV) cases progress to chronic infection; approximately 10-20% of patients with these conditions will develop liver cirrhosis within 2 to 3 decades, and 1-5% will develop liver cancer. Some studies have indicated that the rs738409 polymorphism of the PNPLA3 gene is associated with steatosis and the progression of advanced fibrosis. This study assessed the contribution of the PNPLA3 rs738409 polymorphism with regard to the steatosis and degree of liver fibrosis in Brazilian patients diagnosed with chronic hepatitis C. Methods: A total of 290 patients were evaluated at the Clinics Hospital of the School of Medicine, University of São Paulo, between 2010 and 2015. The inclusion criteria were age ≥ 18 years and positive anti-HCV antibody and HCV RNA tests. The participants were evaluated based on medical consultation, blood tests, and liver biopsies conducted before specific antiviral therapies were applied. The associations between the rs738409 PNPLA3 gene polymorphism and steatosis and advanced fibrosis were tested under a recessive inheritance model using logistic regression analysis, including age, gender, BMI, ethnicity/color, HOMA-IR, alcohol intake, HCV genotype 3, and the rs58542926 TM6SF2 gene polymorphism as covariates. Results: The mean age of the patients was 54.9 years old (range, 28 to 82 years), and 124 (42.8%) patients were male, 226 (77.9%) were white, 43 (14.8%) were pardo, and 21 (7.2%) were black Brazilians. Of the patients included in this study, 133 (45.9%) presented with the CC genotype, 63 (21.7%) with the CG genotype, and 94 (32.4%) with the GG genotype of the PNPLA3 gene I148M variant. We observed that the associations between PNPLA3 rs738409 GG genotype and steatosis was significant (OR: 2.16; 95% CI 1.26-3.72). The same genotype was associated to advanced fibrosis too (OR:2.64; 95% CI 1.26-5.53). Conclusions: Associations between the rs738409 polymorphism of the PNPLA3 gene genotype GG and hepatic steatosis and advanced fibrosis were observed. Studies are still needed to clarify the influence of these polymorphisms on hepatic steatosis and degree of fibrosis among individuals diagnosed with chronic hepatitis C.
The relative contribution of fungi, bacteria, and nirS and nirK denirifiers to nitrous oxide (N2O) emission with unknown isotopic signature from dairy manure compost was examined by selective inhibition techniques. Chloramphenicol (CHP), cycloheximide (CYH), and diethyl dithiocarbamate (DDTC) were used to suppress the activity of bacteria, fungi, and nirK-possessing denitrifiers, respectively. Produced N2O were surveyed to isotopocule analysis, and its 15N site preference (SP) and δ18O values were compared. Bacteria, fungi, nirS, and nirK gene abundances were compared by qPCR. The results showed that N2O production was strongly inhibited by CHP addition in surface pile samples (82.2%) as well as in nitrite-amended core samples (98.4%), while CYH addition did not inhibit the N2O production. N2O with unknown isotopic signature (SP = 15.3-16.2‰), accompanied by δ18O (19.0-26.8‰) values which were close to bacterial denitrification, was also suppressed by CHP and DDTC addition (95.3%) indicating that nirK denitrifiers were responsible for this N2O production despite being less abundant than nirS denitrifiers. Altogether, our results suggest that bacteria are important for N2O production with different SP values both from compost surface and pile core. However, further work is required to decipher whether N2O with unknown isotopic signature is mostly due to nirK denitrifiers that are taxonomically different from the SP-characterized strains and therefore have different SP values rather than also being interwoven with the contribution of the NO-detoxifying pathway and/or of co-denitrification.
During their development and progression tumors acquire numerous mutations that, when translated into proteins give rise to neoantigens that can be recognized by T cells. Initially, neoantigens were not recognized as preferred targets for cancer immunotherapy due to their enormous diversity and the therefore limited options to develop "one fits all" pharmacologic solutions. In recent years, the experience obtained in clinical trials demonstrating a predictive role of neoantigens in checkpoint inhibition has changed our view on the clinical potential of neoantigens in cancer immunotherapy. Technological advances such as sequencing of whole cancer genomes, the development of reliable algorithms for epitope prediction, and an increasing number of immunotherapeutic options now facilitate the development of personalized tumor therapies directly targeting a patient's neoantigenic burden. Preclinical studies in mice that support the excellent therapeutic potential of neoantigen-directed immunotherapies have provided blueprints on how this methodology can be translated into clinical applications in humans. Consistently, very recent clinical studies on personalized vaccinations targeting in silico predicted neoepitopes shed a first light on the therapeutic potential of personalized, neoantigen-directed immunotherapies. In our review, we discuss the various subtypes of tumor antigens with a focus on neoantigens and their potential in cancer immunotherapy. We will describe the current methods and techniques of detection as well as the structural requirements for neoantigens that are needed for their recognition by T cells and for tumor destruction. To assess the clinical potential of neoantigens, we will discuss their occurrence and functional relevance in spontaneous and hereditary cancers and their prognostic and predictive value. We will present in detail the existing immunotherapeutic options that exploit the neoantigen burden of tumors encompassing both preclinical efforts that provided convincing technological proof-of-concept and the current clinical studies confirming the potential of neoantigen-directed immunotherapies.
Roquin proteins preclude spontaneous T cell activation and aberrant differentiation of T follicular helper (Tfh) or T helper 17 (Th17) cells. Here we showed that deletion of Roquin-encoding alleles specifically in regulatory T (Treg) cells also caused the activation of conventional T cells. Roquin-deficient Treg cells downregulated CD25, acquired a follicular Treg (Tfr) cell phenotype, and suppressed germinal center reactions but could not protect from colitis. Roquin inhibited the PI3K-mTOR signaling pathway by upregulation of Pten through interfering with miR-17∼92 binding to an overlapping cis-element in the Pten 3′ UTR, and downregulated the Foxo1-specific E3 ubiquitin ligase Itch. Loss of Roquin enhanced Akt-mTOR signaling and protein synthesis, whereas inhibition of PI3K or mTOR in Roquin-deficient T cells corrected enhanced Tfh and Th17 or reduced iTreg cell differentiation. Thereby, Roquin-mediated control of PI3K-mTOR signaling prevents autoimmunity by restraining activation and differentiation of conventional T cells and specialization of Treg cells. Essig et al. show that spontaneous activation and aberrant differentiation of Roquin-deficient T cells involves cell-intrinsic causes in not only conventional T cells but also impaired Treg cell function. In both cell types, Roquin inhibits the PI3K-mTOR signaling pathway at several levels, thereby controlling protein biosynthesis and limiting differentiation toward Th17 and Tfh cells as well as preventing the conversion and functional specialization of Treg into Tfr cells.
The peripheral hearing process taking place in the cochlea mainly depends on two distinct sensory cell types: the mechanosensitive hair cells and the spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs). The first respond to the mechanical stimulation exerted by sound pressure waves on their hair bundles by releasing neurotransmitters and thereby activating the latter. Loss of these sensorineural cells is associated with permanent hearing loss. Stem cell-based approaches aiming at cell replacement or in vitro drug testing to identify potential ototoxic, otoprotective, or regenerative compounds have lately gained attention as putative therapeutic strategies for hearing loss. Nevertheless, they rely on efficient and reliable protocols for the in vitro generation of cochlear sensory cells for their implementation. To this end, we have developed a differentiation protocol based on organoid culture systems, which mimics the most important steps of in vivo otic development, robustly guiding mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) toward otic sensory neurons (OSNs). The stepwise differentiation of mESCs toward ectoderm was initiated using a quick aggregation method in presence of Matrigel in serum-free conditions. Non-neural ectoderm was induced via activation of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling and concomitant inhibition of transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) signaling to prevent mesendoderm induction. Preplacodal and otic placode ectoderm was further induced by inhibition of BMP signaling and addition of fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2). Delamination and differentiation of SGNs was initiated by plating of the organoids on a 2D Matrigel-coated substrate. Supplementation with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) was used for further maturation until 15 days of in vitro differentiation. A large population of neurons with a clear bipolar morphology and functional excitability was derived from these cultures. Immunostaining and gene expression analysis performed at different time points confirmed the transition trough the otic lineage and final expression of the key OSN markers. Moreover, the stem cell-derived OSNs exhibited functional electrophysiological properties of native SGNs. Our established in vitro model of OSNs development can be used for basic developmental studies, for drug screening or for the exploration of their regenerative potential.
Reactions of La(NO3)3·6H2O with the polar, tritopic quaternized carboxylate ligands N-carboxymethyl-3,5-dicarboxylpyridinium bromide (H3CmdcpBr) and N-(4-carboxybenzyl)-3,5-dicarboxylpyridinium bromide (H3CbdcpBr) afford two water-stable metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) of {[La4(Cmdcp)6(H2O)9]}n (1, 3D) and {[La2(Cbdcp)3(H2O)10]}n (2, 2D). MOFs 1 and 2 absorb the carboxyfluorescein (FAM)-tagged probe DNA (P-DNA) and quench the fluorescence of FAM via a photoinduced electron transfer (PET) process. The nonemissive P-DNA@MOF hybrids thus formed in turn function as sensing platforms to distinguish conservative linear, single-stranded RNA sequences of Sudan virus with high selectivity and low detection limits of 112 and 67 pM, respectively (at a signal-to-noise ratio of 3). These hybrids also exhibit high specificity and discriminate down to single-base mismatch RNA sequences.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. Short interspersed elements (SINEs) are a family of retrotransposons evolutionarily derived from cellular RNA polymerase III transcripts. Over evolutionary time, SINEs have expanded throughout the human genome and today comprise ~11% of total chromosomal DNA. While generally transcriptionally silent in healthy somatic cells, SINE expression increases during a variety of types of stresses, including DNA virus infection. The relevance of SINE expression to viral infection was largely unexplored, however, recent years have seen great progress towards defining the impact of SINE expression on viral replication and host gene expression. Here we review the origin and diversity of SINE elements and their transcriptional control, with an emphasis on how their expression impacts host cell biology during viral infection.
A method for the high-level production of recombinant AsEndI (endonuclease I from Aliivibrio salmonicida) in Escherichia coli with secretion expression is investigated. The coding sequence of AsEndI gene was assembled according to the E. coli codon usage bias, and AsEndI was expressed in the periplasm of E. coli TOP10 with a C-terminal 6× His-tagged fusion. The recombinant AsEndI (His-AsEndI) was purified by Ni-NTA resin with a yield of 1.29 × 107 U from 1-L LB medium. His-AsEndI could be classified into Ca2+/Mg2+-dependent nucleases and showed highest nuclease activity to dsDNA at pH 8.0 and 37 °C. His-AsEndI is highly active in a broad range of salt concentration range up to 1.0 M with optimal NaCl concentration at 0.4 M. His-AsEndI can effectively remove DNA contamination in RNA sample or in PCR reagents to the level that cannot be detected by highly sensitive nested PCR and without adverse effects on the subsequent PCR reaction. His-AsEndI can remove DNA contamination at high salt conditions, especially for the DNA that may be shielded by DNA-binding protein at low salt conditions.
Background: The global incidence of melanoma has been increasing faster than any other form of cancer. New therapies offer exciting prospects for improved survival, but the development of resistance is a major problem and there remains a need for additional effective melanoma therapy. Platinum compounds, such as cisplatin, are the most effective chemotherapeutics for a number of major cancers, but are ineffective on metastatic melanoma. They cause monofunctional adducts and intrastrand crosslinks that are repaired by nucleotide excision repair, as well as the more toxic interstrand crosslinks that are repaired by a combination of nuclease activity and homologous recombination. Methods: We investigated the mechanism of melanoma resistance to cisplatin using a panel of melanoma and control cell lines. Cisplatin-induced changes in levels of the key homologous recombination protein RAD51 and compensatory changes in translesion synthesis DNA polymerases were identified by western blotting and qRT-PCR. Flow cytometry, immunofluorescence and western blotting were used to compare the cell cycle and DNA damage response and the induction of apoptosis in cisplatin-treated melanoma and control cells. Ectopic expression of a tagged form of RAD51 and siRNA knockdown of translesion synthesis DNA polymerase zeta were used to investigate the mechanism that allowed cisplatin-treated melanoma cells to continue to replicate. Results: We have identified and characterised a novel DNA damage response mechanism in melanoma. Instead of increasing levels of RAD51 on encountering cisplatin-induced interstrand crosslinks during replication, melanoma cells shut down RAD51 synthesis and instead boost levels of translesion synthesis DNA polymerase zeta to allow replication to proceed. This response also resulted in synthetic lethality to the PARP inhibitor olaparib. Conclusions: This unusual DNA damage response may be a more appropriate strategy for an aggressive and rapidly growing tumour like melanoma that enables it to better survive chemotherapy, but also results in increased sensitivity of cultured melanoma cells to the PARP inhibitor olaparib.
Exceptions to this universal plastid genome architecture are very few and include the dinoflagellates, where genes are located on DNA minicircles. Here we report on the highly deviant chloroplast genome of Cladophorales green algae, which is entirely fragmented into hairpin chromosomes. Short- and long-read high-throughput sequencing of DNA and RNA demonstrated that the chloroplast genes of Boodlea composita are encoded on 1- to 7-kb DNA contigs with an exceptionally high GC content, each containing a long inverted repeat with one or two protein-coding genes and conserved non-coding regions putatively involved in replication and/or expression. We propose that these contigs correspond to linear single-stranded DNA molecules that fold onto themselves to form hairpin chromosomes. The Boodlea chloroplast genes are highly divergent from their corresponding orthologs, and display an alternative genetic code. The origin of this highly deviant chloroplast genome most likely occurred before the emergence of the Cladophorales, and coincided with an elevated transfer of chloroplast genes to the nucleus. A chloroplast genome that is composed only of linear DNA molecules is unprecedented among eukaryotes, and highlights unexpected variation in plastid genome architecture. Del Cortona et al. describe intriguing features of the plastid genome of Cladophorales, which is fragmented into linear ssDNA molecules that fold into hairpin configurations due to the presence of inverted repeats. This architecture is unprecedented among eukaryotes, and highlights unexpected variation in plastid genome structure.
As the primary active substance in tobacco, nicotine affects the activity of the central nervous system, and its effects are sex-dependent. There are complex interactions between the gut and brain, and the gut microbiome can influence neuronal activity and host behavior, with diverse chemical signaling being involved. However, it is unclear whether nicotine can affect the normal gut microbiome and associated chemical signaling of the gut-brain axis. Sex is an important factor that shapes the gut microbiome, but the role of sex in the interaction among nicotine, gut bacteria, and related metabolites remains unknown. In this study, we applied high-throughput sequencing and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to explore how nicotine exposure affects the gut microbiome and its metabolism in female and male C57BL/6J mice, with a focus on the chemical signaling involved in gut-brain interactions. 16S sequencing results indicated that the community composition of the gut microbiome was differentially perturbed by nicotine in females and males. Differential alterations of bacterial carbohydrate metabolic pathways are consistent with lower body weight gain in nicotine-treated males. Oxidative stress response and DNA repair genes were also specifically enriched in the nicotine-treated male gut microbiome. The fecal metabolome indicated that multiple neurotransmitters, such as glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and glycine, were differentially altered in female and male mice. Some neuroactive metabolites, including leucine and uric acid, were also changed. This study demonstrates a sex-dependent effect of nicotine on gut microbiome community composition, functional bacterial genes, and the fecal metabolome.
High pressure carbon dioxide (HPCD) could cause sublethally injured cells (SICs), which may cause food poisoning and spoilage during food storage and limit its application. Therefore, the formation of SICs of Escherichia coli O157:H7 was investigated by isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) proteomic methods in this study for better controlling the SICs induced by HPCD. A total of 2,446 proteins was identified by iTRAQ, of which 93 and 29 were significantly differentially expressed in the SICs compared with live control cells (CKL) and dead control cells (CKD), respectively. Among the 93 differentially expressed proteins (DEP) in the SICs compared with CKL, 65 proteins showed down-regulation and 28 showed up-regulation. According to the comprehensive proteome coverage analysis, the SICs survived under HPCD by reducing carbohydrate decomposing, lipid transport and metabolism, amino acid transport and metabolism, transcription and translation, DNA replication and repair. Besides, the SICs showed stress response, DNA damage response and an increased carbohydrate transport, peptidoglycan synthesis and disulfide bond formation to HPCD. Among the 29 DEP in the SICs compared with CKD, 12 proteins showed down-regulation and 17 showed up-regulation. According to the comprehensive proteome coverage analysis, the SICs survived under HPCD by accumulation of cell protective agents like carbohydrates and amino acids, and decreasing transcription and translation activities. Results showed that the formation of the SICs with low metabolic activity and high survival ability was a survival strategy for E. coli O157:H7 against HPCD.
We isolated from aerobic and anaerobic blood culture bottles from a febrile patient, a Helicobacter-like Gram negative, rod-shaped bacterium that MALDI-TOF MS failed to identify. Blood agar cultures incubated in a microaerobic atmosphere revealed a motile Gram negative rod, which was oxidase, catalase, nitrate reductase, esterase, and alkaline phosphatase positive. It grew at 42°C with no detectable urease activity. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing showed that the organism was susceptible to beta-lactams, gentamicin, erythromycin, and tetracycline but resistant to ciprofloxacin. Electronic microscopy analysis revealed a 3 × 0.5 μm curved rod bacterium harboring two sheathed amphitrichous flagella. Whole genome sequencing revealed a genome 1,708,265 base-pairs long with a GC content of 37.80% and a total of 1,697 coding sequences. The genomic analyses using the nucleotide sequences of the 16S rRNA gene, hsp60 and gyrB genes, as well as the GyrA protein sequence, and the results of Average Nucleotide Identity and in silico DNA-DNA hybridization suggest evidence for a novel Helicobacter species close to Helicobacter equorum and belonging to the group of enterohepatic Helicobacter species. As soon as the particular peptide mass fingerprint of this pathogen is added to the spectral databases, MALDI-TOF MS technology will improve its identification from clinical specimens, especially in case of "sterile infection". We propose to associate the present strain with the Latin name of the place of isolation; Caesarodunum (Tours, France) and suggest "Helicobacter caesarodunensis" for further description of this new bacterium.
Clinical and genetic heterogeneity associated with retinal diseases makes stem-cell-based therapies an attractive strategy for personalized medicine. However, we have limited understanding of the timing of key events in the developing human retina, and in particular the factors critical for generating the unique architecture of the fovea and surrounding macula. Here we define three key epochs in the transcriptome dynamics of human retina from fetal day (D) 52 to 136. Coincident histological analyses confirmed the cellular basis of transcriptional changes and highlighted the dramatic acceleration of development in the fovea compared with peripheral retina. Human and mouse retinal transcriptomes show remarkable similarity in developmental stages, although morphogenesis was greatly expanded in humans. Integration of DNA accessibility data allowed us to reconstruct transcriptional networks controlling photoreceptor differentiation. Our studies provide insights into human retinal development and serve as a resource for molecular staging of human stem-cell-derived retinal organoids. Hoshino et al. describe transcriptome dynamics and spatiotemporal analyses of developing human retina, demonstrating distinct periods of neurogenesis in the fovea versus nasal retina. Comparison with mouse retinal transcriptomes and integration with open chromatin datasets reveal evolutionary conservation of developmental regulatory networks and unique characteristics of human retinal differentiation.
In the supramolecular chemistry field, coordination-driven self-assembly has provided the basis for tremendous growth across many subdisciplines, spanning from fundamental investigations regarding the design and synthesis of new architectures to defining different practical applications. Within this framework, supramolecular coordination complexes (SCCs), defined as large chemical entities formed from smaller precursor building blocks of ionic metal nodes and organic multidentate ligands, resulting in intricate and well-defined supramolecular structures, hold great promise. Notably, interest in the construction of discrete 3D molecular architectures, such as those offered by SCCs, has experienced extraordinary progress because of their potential application as sensors, catalysts, probes, and containers and in basic host-guest chemistry. Despite numerous synthetic efforts and a number of inherent favorable properties, the field of 3D SCCs for biomedical applications is still in its infancy. This Viewpoint focuses on 3D SCCs, specifically metallacages and helicates, first briefly presenting the fundamentals in terms of the synthesis and characterization of their host-guest properties, followed by an overview of the possible biological applications with representative examples. Thus, emphasis will be given in particular to metallacages as drug delivery systems and to chiral helicates as DNA recognition domains. Overall, we will provide an update on the state-of-the-art literature and will define the challenges in this fascinating research area at the interface of different disciplines.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. Pistachios are rich in health-promoting bioactive compounds such as B vitamins, γ-tocopherol, polyphenols and dietary fiber, which could contribute to the reduction of colon cancer risk in terms of chemoprevention (Fischer, S.; Glei, M. Health-Potential of Nuts. Ernaehrungs Umsch. Int. 2013, 60, 206–215.). Since pistachios are often consumed roasted, the present study aims at investigating the influence of different roasting conditions (RC) on potential chemopreventive effects of pistachios in colon adenoma cells such as growth and apoptosis, genotoxic- and anti-genotoxic effects and modulation of gene expression of detoxifying enzymes (CAT, SOD2, GPx1, and GSTP1). Fermentation supernatants (FS) were obtained from raw and roasted (RC1 = 141◦C/25 min, RC2 = 160◦C/15 min and RC3 = 185◦C/21 min) pistachios after in vitro fermentation. FS of pistachios significantly reduced LT97 cell growth in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Compared to the blank control, pistachio FS (2.5%) led to a significant average reduction of H2O2-induced DNA damage (1.5-fold). Levels of CAT mRNA were significantly increased (1.3-fold, on average for 5% FS). Pistachio FS (5%) significantly increased the number of early apoptotic cells (up to 2.1-fold) and levels of caspase-3 activities (up to 6.9-fold). The present results confirm a chemopreventive potential of pistachios, which is mediated by growth inhibition, induction of apoptosis and anti-genotoxic effects, as well as induction of CAT. These effects remain mostly unaffected by roasting.
During wounding, tissues are disrupted so that bacteria can easily enter the host and trigger a host response. Both the host response and bacterial communication can occur through quorum sensing (QS) and quorum sensing inhibition (QSI). Here, we characterize the effect of wounding on the host-associated bacterial community of the bed bug. This is a model system where the male is wounding the female during every mating. Whereas several aspects of the microbial involvement during wounding have been previously examined, it is not clear to what extent QS and QSI play a role. We find that the microbiome differs depending on mating and feeding status of female bedbugs and is specific to the location of isolation. Most organs of bedbugs harbor bacteria, which are capable of both QS and QSI signaling. By focusing on the prokaryotic quorum communication system, we provide a baseline for future research in this unique system. We advocate the bedbug system as suitable for studying the effects of bacteria on reproduction and for addressing prokaryote and eukaryote communication during wounding.
By now, only limited information on the Roseobacter group thriving at the seafloor is available. Hence, the current study was conducted to determine their abundance and diversity within Pacific sediments along the 180° meridian. We hypothesize a distinct biogeographical distribution of benthic members of the Roseobacter group linked to nutrient availability within the sediments and productivity of the water column. Lowest cell numbers were counted at the edge of the south Pacific gyre and within the north Pacific gyre followed by an increase to the north with maximum values in the highly productive Bering Sea. Specific quantification of the Roseobacter group revealed on average a relative abundance of 1.7 and 6.3% as determined by catalyzed reported deposition-fluorescence in situ hybridization (CARD-FISH) and quantitative PCR (qPCR), respectively. Corresponding Illumina tag sequencing of 16S rRNA genes and 16S rRNA transcripts showed different compositions containing on average 0.7 and 0.9% Roseobacter-affiliated OTUs of the DNA- and RNA-based communities. These OTUs were mainly assigned to uncultured members of the Roseobacter group. Among those with cultured representatives, Sedimentitalea and Sulfitobacter made up the largest proportions. The different oceanic provinces with low nutrient content such as both ocean gyres were characterized by specific communities of the Roseobacter group, distinct from those of the more productive Pacific subarctic region and the Bering Sea. However, linking the community structure to specific metabolic processes at the seafloor is hampered by the dominance of so-far uncultured members of the Roseobacter group, indicating a diversity that has yet to be explored.
Many bacteria regulate gene expression in response to phosphate availability using a two-component signal transduction system, the activity of which is controlled by interaction with the Pst phosphate specific transporter and a cytoplasmic protein PhoU. Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the causative agent of tuberculosis, requires its phosphate sensing signal transduction system for virulence and antibiotic tolerance, but the molecular mechanisms of phosphate sensing remain poorly characterized. M. smegmatis serves as a model for studying mycobacterial pathogens including M. tuberculosis. M. smegmatis encodes two proteins with similarity to PhoU, but it was unknown if both proteins participated in signal transduction with the phosphate-responsive SenX3-RegX3 two-component system. We constructed phoU single and double deletion mutants and tested expression of genes in the RegX3 regulon. Only the ΔphoU1ΔphoU2 mutant exhibited constitutive activation of all the RegX3-regulated genes examined, suggesting that M. smegmatis PhoU1 and PhoU2 have overlapping functions in inhibiting activity of the SenX3-RegX3 two-component system when phosphate is readily available. The ΔphoU1ΔphoU2 mutant also exhibited decreased tolerance to several anti-tubercular drugs. However, a complex plasmid swapping strategy was required to generate the ΔphoU1ΔphoU2 mutant, suggesting that either phoU1 or phoU2 is essential for in vitro growth of M. smegmatis. Using whole-genome sequencing, we demonstrated that all five of the ΔphoU1ΔphoU2 mutants we isolated had independent suppressor mutations predicted to disrupt the function of the Pst phosphate transporter, suggesting that in the absence of the PhoU proteins phosphate uptake by the Pst system is toxic. Collectively, our data demonstrate that the two M. smegmatis PhoU orthologs have overlapping functions in both controlling SenX3-RegX3 activity in response to phosphate availability and regulating phosphate transport by the Pst system. Our results suggest that M. smegmatis can serve as a tractable model for further characterization of the molecular mechanism of phosphate sensing in mycobacteria and to screen for compounds that would interfere with signal transduction and thereby increase the efficacy of existing anti-tubercular antibiotics.
Here, we report the draft genome sequences of three fungal-interactive Paraburkholderia terraestrains, denoted BS110, BS007 and BS437. Phylogenetic analyses showed that the three strains belong to clade II of the genus Burkholderia , which was recently renamed Paraburkholderia. This novel genus primarily contains environmental species, encompassing non-pathogenic plant- as well as fungal-interactive species. The genome of strain BS007 consists of 11,025,273 bp, whereas those of strains BS110 and BS437 have 11,178,081 and 11,303,071 bp, respectively. Analyses of the three annotated genomes revealed the presence of (1) a large suite of substrate capture systems, and (2) a suite of genetic systems required for adaptation to microenvironments in soil and the mycosphere. Thus, genes encoding traits that potentially confer fungal interactivity were found, such as type 4 pili, type 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 secretion systems, and biofilm formation (PGA, alginate and pel) and glycerol uptake systems. Furthermore, the three genomes also revealed the presence of a highly conserved five-gene cluster that had previously been shown to be upregulated upon contact with fungal hyphae. Moreover, a considerable number of prophage-like and CRISPR spacer sequences was found, next to genetic systems responsible for secondary metabolite production. Overall, the three P. terraestrains possess the genetic repertoire necessary for adaptation to diverse soil niches, including those influenced by soil fungi.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. The transcription factor NRF2 (nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2) orchestrates major cellular defense mechanisms including phase-II detoxification, inflammatory signaling, DNA repair, and antioxidant response. Recent studies strongly suggest a protective role of NRF2-mediated gene expression in the suppression of cutaneous photodamage induced by solar UV (ultraviolet) radiation. The apocarotenoid bixin, a Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved natural food colorant (referred to as ‘annatto’) originates from the seeds of the achiote tree native to tropical America, consumed by humans since ancient times. Use of achiote preparations for skin protection against environmental insult and for enhanced wound healing has long been documented. We have recently reported that (i) bixin is a potent canonical activator of the NRF2-dependent cytoprotective response in human skin keratinocytes; that (ii) systemic administration of bixin activates NRF2 with protective effects against solar UV-induced skin damage; and that (iii) bixin-induced suppression of photodamage is observable in Nrf2+/+ but not in Nrf2−/− SKH-1 mice confirming the NRF2-dependence of bixin-induced antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. In addition, bixin displays molecular activities as sacrificial antioxidant, excited state quencher, PPAR (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor) α/γ agonist, and TLR (Toll-like receptor) 4/NFκB (nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells) antagonist, all of which might be relevant to the enhancement of skin barrier function and environmental stress protection. Potential skin photoprotection and photochemoprevention benefits provided by topical application or dietary consumption of this ethno-pharmacologically validated phytochemical originating from the Americas deserves further preclinical and clinical examination.
The milpa is a traditional maize-based polyculture in Mexico that is typically practiced as rainfed agriculture. Because milpa cultivation has been practiced over a vast range of environmental and cultural conditions, this agroecosystem is recognized as an important repository of biological and cultural diversity. As for any agroecosystem, the relationship between plant development and the biogeochemical processes of the soil is critical. Although the milpa has been studied from different perspectives, the diversity and structure of microbial communities within milpa soils remain largely unexplored. In this study, we surveyed a milpa system in Central Mexico across cropping season: before planting (dry season; t1), during the early growth of plants (onset of the rainy season; t2), and before harvest (end of the rainy season; t3). In order to examine changes in community structure through time, we characterized bacterial diversity through high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA gene amplicons and recorded the nutrient status of multiple (5-10) soil samples from our milpa plots. We estimated microbial diversity from a total of 90 samples and constructed co-occurrence networks. Although we did not find significant changes in diversity or composition of bacterial communities across time, we identified significant rearrangements in their co-occurrence network structure. We found particularly drastic changes between the first and second time points. Co-occurrence analyses showed that the bacterial community changed from a less structured network at (t1) into modules with a non-random composition of taxonomic groups at (t2). We conclude that changes in bacterial communities undetected by standard diversity analyses can become evident when performing co-occurrence network analyses. We also postulate possible functional associations among keystone groups suggested by biogeochemical processes. This study represents the first contribution on soil microbial diversity of a maize-based polyculture and shows its dynamic nature in short-term scales.
Sequence specific cleavage of RNA can be achieved by hammerhead ribozymes as well as DNAzymes. They comprise a catalytic core sequence flanked by regions that form double strands with complementary RNA. While different types of ribozymes have been discovered in natural organisms, DNAzymes derive from in vitro selection. Both have been used for therapeutic down-regulation of harmful proteins by reducing drastically the corresponding mRNA concentration. A priori DNAzymes appear advantageous because of the higher haemolytic stability and better cost effectiveness when compared to RNA. In the present work the 10–23 DNAzyme was applied to knockdown expression of the prion protein (PrP), the sole causative agent of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. We selected accessible target sequences on the PrP mRNA based on a sequential folding algorithm. Very high effectivity of DNAzymes was found for cleavage of RNA in vitro, but activity in neuroblastoma cells was very low. However, siRNA directed to the identical target sequences reduced expression of PrP in the same cell type. According to our analysis, three Mg2 + bind cooperatively to the DNAzyme to exert full activity. However, free ATP binds the Mg2 + ions more strongly and already stoichiometric amounts of Mg2 + and ATP inhibited the activity of DNAzymes drastically. In contrast, natural ribozymes form three-dimensional structures close to the cleavage site that stabilize the active conformation at much lower Mg2 + concentrations. For DNAzymes, however, a similar stabilization is not known and therefore DNAzymes need higher free Mg2 + concentrations than that available inside the cell.
Archaeoglobus fulgidus is the type species of genus Archaeoglobus Stetter 1998, a hyperthermophilic sulfate reducing group within the Archaeoglobi class of the euryarchaeota phylum. Members of this genus grow heterotrophically or chemolithoautotrophically with sulfate or thiosulfate as electron acceptors. Except for A. fulgidus strain 7324 and the candidate species "Archaeoglobus lithotrophicus", which both originate from deep oil-fields, the other members of this genus have been recovered from marine hydrothermal systems. Here we describe the features of the A. fulgidus strain 7324 genome as compared to the A. fulgidus VC16 type strain. The 2.3 Mbp genome sequence of strain 7324 shares about 93.5% sequence identity with that of strain VC16T but is about 138 Kbp longer, which is mostly due to two large 'insertions' carrying one extra cdc6 (cell-cycle control protein 6) gene, extra CRISPR elements and mobile genetic elements, a high-GC ncRNA gene (hgcC) and a large number of hypothetical gene functions. A comparison with four other Archaeoglobus spp. genomes identified 1001 core Archaeoglobus genes and more than 2900 pan-genome orthologous genes.
Proline (Pro) metabolism in plants is involved in various cellular processes mediated during abiotic stress. However, the Pro-regulatory mechanisms are unclear. We used a suppressor mutation technique to isolate novel genes involved in the regulation of Pro metabolism in Arabidopsis. Using atrzf1 as a parental plant for T-DNA tagging mutagenesis, we identified a suppressor mutant, termed proline content alterative 21 (pca21), that displayed reduced Pro contents compared with the atrzf1 under osmotic stress conditions. Genomic Thermal Asymmetric Interlaced (TAIL)-PCR revealed pca21 harbored an inserted T-DNA in the region of At2g36620 that encodes Ribosomal Protein L24A. In general, the pca21 mutant partially suppressed the insensitivity of atrzf1 to osmotic stress and abscisic acid during seed germination and early seedling stage. Additionally, the pca21 mutant had increased MDA content and lower expression of several Pro biosynthesis-related genes than the atrzf1 mutant during drought condition. These results suggest that pca21 acts as partial suppressor of atrzf1 in the osmotic stress response through the Pro-mediated pathway.
Self-folding of an information-carrying polymer into a defined structure is foundational to biology and offers attractive potential as a synthetic strategy. Although multicomponent self-assembly has produced complex synthetic nanostructures, unimolecular folding has seen limited progress.We describe a framework to design and synthesize a single DNA or RNA strand to self-fold into a complex yet unknotted structure that approximates an arbitrary user-prescribed shape. We experimentally construct diverse multikilobase single-stranded structures, including a ∼10, 000-nucleotide (nt) DNA structure and a ∼6000-nt RNA structure. We demonstrate facile replication of the strand in vitro and in living cells. The work here thus establishes unimolecular folding as a general strategy for constructing complex and replicable nucleic acid nanostructures, and expands the design space and material scalability for bottom-up nanotechnology.
Structured RNAs and RNA–protein complexes (RNPs) fold through complex pathways that are replete with misfolded traps, and many RNAs and RNPs undergo extensive conformational changes during their functional cycles. These folding steps and conformational transitions are frequently promoted by RNA chaperone proteins, notably by superfamily 2 (SF2) RNA helicase proteins. The two largest families of SF2 helicases, DEAD-box and DEAH-box proteins, share evolutionarily conserved helicase cores, but unwind RNA helices through distinct mechanisms. Recent studies have advanced our understanding of how their distinct mechanisms enable DEAD-box proteins to disrupt RNA base pairs on the surfaces of structured RNAs and RNPs, while some DEAH-box proteins are adept at disrupting base pairs in the interior of RNPs. Proteins from these families use these mechanisms to chaperone folding and promote rearrangements of structured RNAs and RNPs, including the spliceosome, and may use related mechanisms to maintain cellular messenger RNAs in unfolded or partially unfolded conformations.
RNAs are involved in interaction networks with other biomolecules and are crucial for proper cell function. Yet their biochemical analysis remains challenging. For Förster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET), a common tool to study such interaction networks, two interacting molecules have to be fluorescently labeled. "Spinach" is a genetically encodable RNA aptamer that starts to fluoresce upon binding of an organic molecule. Therefore, it is a biological fluorophore tag for RNAs. However, spinach has never been used in a FRET assembly before. Here, we describe how spinach is quenched when close to acceptors. We used RNA-DNA hybridization to bring quenchers or red organic dyes in close proximity to spinach. Furthermore, we investigate RNA-protein interactions quantitatively on the example of Pseudomonas aeruginosa phage coat protein 7 (PP7) and its interacting pp7-RNA. We utilize spinach quenching as a fully genetically encodable system even under lysate conditions. Therefore, this work represents a direct method to analyze RNA-protein interactions by quenching the spinach aptamer.
DNA damage response (DDR) is essential for genome stability and human health. Recently, several RNA binding proteins (RBPs), including fused-in-sarcoma (FUS), have been found unexpectedly to modulate this process. The role of FUS in DDR is closely linked to the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord. Given that RBM45 is also an ALS-associated RBP, we wondered whether RBM45 plays any function during this process. Here, we report that RBM45 can be recruited to laser microirradiation-induced DNA damage sites in a PAR- and FUS-dependent manner, but in a RNA-independent fashion. Depletion of RBM45 leads to abnormal DDR signaling and decreased efficiency in DNA double-stranded break repair. Interestingly, RBM45 is found to compete with histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) for binding to FUS, thereby regulating the recruitment of HDAC1 to DNA damage sites. A common familial ALS-associated FUS mutation (FUS-R521C) is revealed to prefer to cooperate with RBM45 than HDAC1. Our findings suggest that RBM45 is a key regulator in FUS-related DDR signaling whose dysfunction may contribute to the pathogenesis of ALS.
Actively transcribed genes adopt a unique chromatin environment with characteristic patterns of enrichment. Within gene bodies, H3K36me3 and cytosine DNA methylation are elevated at exons of spliced genes and have been implicated in the regulation of pre-mRNA splicing. H3K36me3 is further responsive to splicing, wherein splicing inhibition led to a redistribution and general reduction over gene bodies. In contrast, little is known of the mechanisms supporting elevated DNA methylation at actively spliced genic locations. Recent evidence associating the de novo DNA methyltransferase Dnmt3b with H3K36me3-rich chromatin raises the possibility that genic DNA methylation is influenced by splicingassociated H3K36me3. Here, we report the generation of an isogenic resource to test the direct impact of splicing on chromatin. A panel of minigenes of varying splicing potential were integrated into a single FRT site for inducible expression. Profiling of H3K36me3 confirmed the established relationship to splicing, wherein levels were directly correlated with splicing efficiency. In contrast, DNA methylation was equivalently detected across the minigene panel, irrespective of splicing and H3K36me3 status. In addition to revealing a degree of independence between genic H3K36me3 and DNA methylation, these findings highlight the generated minigene panel as a flexible platform for the query of splicing-dependent chromatin modifications.
Retroviral reverse transcriptase catalyses the synthesis of an integration-competent dsDNA molecule, using as a substrate the viral RNA. Using optical tweezers, we follow the Murine Leukemia Virus reverse transcriptase as it performs stranddisplacement polymerization on a template under mechanical force. Our results indicate that reverse transcriptase functions as a Brownian ratchet, with dNTP binding as the rectifying reaction of the ratchet. We also found that reverse transcriptase is a relatively passive enzyme, able to polymerize on structured templates by exploiting their thermal breathing. Finally, our results indicate that the enzyme enters the recently characterized backtracking state from the pre-translocation complex.
RNase H cleaves RNA in RNA-DNA duplexes. It is present in all domains of life as well as in multiple viruses and is essential for mammalian development and for human immunodeficiency virus replication. Here, we developed a sequencing-based method to measure the cleavage of thousands of different RNA- DNA duplexes and thereby comprehensively characterized the sequence preferences of HIV-1, human and Escherichia coli RNase H enzymes. We find that the catalytic domains of E. coli and human RNase H have nearly identical sequence preferences, which correlate with the efficiency of RNase H-recruiting antisense oligonucleotides. The sequences preferred by HIV-1 RNase H are distributed in the HIV genome in a way suggesting selection for efficient RNA cleavage during replication. Our findings can be used to improve the design of RNase H-recruiting antisense oligonucleotides and show that sequence preferences of HIV-1 RNase H may have shaped evolution of the viral genome and contributed to the use of tRNA-Lys3 as primer during viral replication.
mRNA splicing and export plays a key role in the regulation of gene expression, with recent evidence suggesting an additional layer of regulation of gene expression and cellular function through the selective splicing and export of genes within specific pathways. Here we describe a role for the RNA processing factors THRAP3 and BCLAF1 in the regulation of the cellular DNA damage response (DDR) pathway, a key pathway involved in the maintenance of genomic stability and the prevention of oncogenic transformation. We show that loss of THRAP3 and/or BCLAF1 leads to sensitivity to DNA damaging agents, defective DNA repair and genomic instability. Additionally, we demonstrate that this phenotype can be at least partially explained by the role of THRAP3 and BCLAF1 in the selective mRNA splicing and export of transcripts encoding key DDR proteins, including the ATM kinase. Moreover, we show that cancer associated mutations within THRAP3 result in deregulated processing of THRAP3/BCLAF1- regulated transcripts and consequently defective DNA repair. Taken together, these results suggest that THRAP3 and BCLAF1 mutant tumors may be promising targets for DNA damaging chemotherapy.
There is a need for rapid and less expensive methods to identify RNA viruses, including luteoviruses, for practical use in agriculture and quarantine. The mass spectrometric cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (MS-CAPS) method, which detects enzymatically cleaved amplicons by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry, was herein used together with a short RT-PCR to detect luteovirus in only 90 min. In addition, the matrixes 2′,4′,6′-trihydroxyacetophene and 3-hydroxypicolinic acid were compared for their effectiveness in the analysis of short single-stranded biotinylated DNA obtained by a MS-CAPS reaction.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the National Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved. Pathogenic RNA viruses are potentially the most important group involved in zoonotic disease transmission, and they represent a challenge for global disease control. Their biological diversity and rapid adaptive rates have proved to be difficult to overcome and to anticipate by modern medical technology. Also, the anthropogenic change of natural ecosystems and the continuous population growth are driving increased rates of interspecies contacts and the interchange of pathogens that can develop into global pandemics. The combination of molecular, epidemiological, and ecological knowledge of RNA viruses is therefore essential towards the proper control of these emergent pathogens. This review outlines, throughout different levels of complexity, the problems posed by RNA viral diseases, covering some of the molecular mechanisms allowing them to adapt to new host species-and to novel pharmaceutical developments-up to the known ecological processes involved in zoonotic transmission.
Endometriosis is a complex gynecological disorder. The diagnostic process of endometriosis involves an invasive procedure thus delaying the diagnosis for about 10 years on average. Both DNA-methylation data and RNA-seq data has the potential to uncover molecular mechanisms of diseases. The objective of this project is to identify diagnostic molecular mechanisms of endometriosis using a multi-omics approach that will lead to noninvasive diagnostic procedure.
In bacterial RNA polymerase (RNAP), conserved region 3.2 of the σ subunit was proposed to contribute to promoter escape by interacting with the 50-end of nascent RNA, thus facilitating σ dissociation. RNAP activity during transcription initiation can also be modulated by protein factors that bind within the secondary channel and reach the enzyme active site. To monitor the kinetics of promoter escape in real time, we used a molecular beacon assay with fluorescently labeled σ70 subunit of Escherichia coli RNAP. We show that substitutions and deletions in σ region 3.2 decrease the rate of promoter escape and lead to accumulation of inactive complexes during transcription initiation. Secondary channel factors differentially regulate this process depending on the promoter and mutations in σ region 3.2. GreA generally increase the rate of promoter escape; DksA also stimulates promoter escape on certain templates, while GreB either stimulates or inhibits this process depending on the template. When observed, the stimulation of promoter escape correlates with the accumulation of stressed transcription complexes with scrunched DNA, while changes in the RNA 50-end structure modulate promoter clearance. Thus, the initiation-To-elongation transition is controlled by a complex interplay between RNAP-binding protein factors and the growing RNA chain.
This direct mRNA measurement promotes high-throughput testing and reduces bias in transcriptome analyses. Furthermore, quantification of the absolute amount of mRNA allows transcriptome analysis without common controls or additional, complicated normalization. The method, called Photo-DEAN, was validated using chemically synthesized RNAs of known quantities and mouse liver total RNA samples. We found that the absolute amounts of mRNA were successfully measured without the cDNA synthesis step, with a sensitivity of 15 zmol achieved in 7 h.
A bacterial translation factor EF-P alleviates ribosomal stalling caused by polyproline sequence by accelerating Pro-Pro formation. EF-P recognizes a specific D-arm motif found in tRNAPro isoacceptors, 9-nt D-loop closed by a stable D-stem sequence, for Pro-selective peptidyl-transfer acceleration. It is also known that the T-stem sequence on aminoacyl-tRNAs modulates strength of the interaction with EF-Tu, giving enhanced incorporation of non-proteinogenic amino acids such as some Nmethyl amino acids. Based on the above knowledge, we logically engineered tRNA's D-arm and T-stem sequences to investigate a series of tRNAs for the improvement of consecutive incorporation of D-amino acids and an α, α-disubstituted amino acid. We have devised a chimera of tRNAPro1 and tRNAGluE2, referred to as tRNAPro1E2, inwhich T-stem of tRNAGluE2 was engineered into tRNAPro1. The combination of EF-P with tRNAPro1E2 NNN pre-charged with D-Phe, D-Ser, D-Ala, and/or D-Cys has drastically enhanced expression level of not only linear peptides but also a thioethermacrocyclic peptide consisting of the four consecutive D-amino acids over the previous method using orthogonal tRNAs.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. The turnover of the RNA molecules is determined by the rates of transcription and RNA degradation. Several methods have been developed to study RNA turnover since the beginnings of molecular biology. Here we summarize the main methods to measure RNA half-life: transcription inhibition, gene control, and metabolic labelling. These methods were used to detect the cellular activity of the mRNAs degradation machinery, including the exo-ribonuclease Xrn1 and the exosome. On the other hand, the study of the differential stability of mature RNAs has been hampered by the fact that different methods have often yielded inconsistent results. Recent advances in the systematic comparison of different method variants in yeast have permitted the identification of the least invasive methodologies that reflect half-lives the most faithfully, which is expected to open the way for a consistent quantitative analysis of the determinants of mRNA stability.
To evaluate UV damage to the DNA, we developed the “DNA damage” factor, which is a novel cultivation-independent approach that reveals UV-exposure efficiency by applying a simple PCR amplification method. The study's goal was to prove the feasibility of this method for demonstrating the efficiency of UV systems in the field using flow-through UV reactors. In laboratory-based experiments using seeded bacteria, the DNA damage tests demonstrated a good correlation between PCR products and UV dose. In the field, natural groundwater sampled before and after being subjected to the full-scale UV reactors was filtered, and the DNA extracted from the filtrate was subjected to PCR amplification for a 900-bp fragment of the 16S rRNA gene with initial DNA concentrations of 0.1 and 1 ng/μL. In both cases, the UV dose predicted and explained a significant proportion of the variance in the log inactivation ratio and DNA damage factor. Log inactivation ratio was very low, as expected in groundwater due to low initial bacterial counts, whereas the DNA damage factor was within the range of values obtained in the laboratory-based experiments. Consequently, the DNA damage factor reflected the true performance of the full-scale UV system during operational water flow by using the indigenous bacterial array present in a water sample. By applying this method, we were able to predict with high confidence, the UV reactor inactivation potential. For method validation, laboratory and field iterations are required to create a practical field calibration curve that can be used to determine the expected efficiency of the full-scale UV system in the field under actual operation.
Bacterial life is harsh and involves numerous environmental and internal challenges that are perceived as stresses. Consequently, adequate responses to survive, cope with, and counteract stress conditions have evolved. In the last few decades, a class of small, non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) has been shown to be involved as key players in stress responses. This review will discuss — primarily from an enterobacterial perspective — selected stress response pathways that involve antisense-type sRNAs. These include themes of how bacteria deal with severe envelope stress, threats of DNA damage, problems with poisoning due to toxic sugar intermediates, issues of iron homeostasis, and nutrient limitation/starvation. The examples discussed highlight how stress relief can be achieved, and how sRNAs act mechanistically in regulatory circuits. For some cases, we will propose scenarios that may suggest why contributions from post-transcriptional control by sRNAs, rather than transcriptional control alone, appear to be a beneficial and universally selected feature.
KGaA, Weinheim1,4-Dihydrodibenzo[b,h][1,6]naphthyridines were synthesized by the reaction of 2-acetylaminobenzaldehyde with acetophenones in the presence of NaOH. N-Methylation of the dihydrodibenzonaphthyridines with MeI gave 1,1-dimethylammonium iodides. These salts showed UV/Vis absorbance maxima at 235 and 418 nm and very weak fluorescence at 530 nm. The fluorescence intensities were enhanced 3–10 times upon treating these salts with double-stranded DNA by intercalation, which enabled the detection of DNA/RNA by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE).
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Sequence alignment is a core step in the processing of DNA and RNA sequencing data. In this paper, we present a high performance GPU accelerated set of APIs (GASAL) for pairwise sequence alignment of DNA and RNA sequences. The GASAL APIs provide accelerated kernels for local, global as well as semi-global alignment, allowing the computation of the alignment score, and optionally the start and end positions of the alignment. GASAL outperforms the fastest CPU-optimized SIMD implementations such as SSW and Parasail. It also outperforms NVBIO, NVIDIA's own CUDA library for sequence analysis of high-throughput sequencing data. GASAL uses the unique approach of also performing the sequence packing on GPU, which is over 200× faster than the NVBIO approach. Overall on Tesla K40c GASAL is 10-14× faster than 28 Intel Xeon cores and 3-4× faster than NVBIO with a query length of 100 bases. The APIs are included in an easy to use library to allow integration into various bioinformatics tools.
KGaA, Weinheim Nucleic acid enzymes require specific metal ions to be catalytically active. The functions of the metal ions having structural and catalytic roles are affected by competing cations. Large-sized tetraalkylammonium ions have a propensity to preferentially bind to single strands of RNA and DNA. Here, the large cations are used in the reactions of lead-dependent ribozyme and 17E deoxyribozyme that require divalent metal ions to cleave a nucleic acid substrate. Kinetic analysis shows that tetraalkylammonium ions influence the rate of substrate cleavage, and the effects are different depending on the nucleic acid enzymes and metal ions used. Importantly, the large cations used here increase the dependence of cleavage rates on metal ion concentration and enhance the ability of the enzyme to monitor changes in metal ion concentrations. The same effect is also observed for the metal ion concentration dependence of the thermal stability of RNA and DNA structures, indicating that the large cations affect the binding of structural metal ions. The use of large tetraalkylammonium ions provides new ways to study the importance of metal ions to nucleic acid enzymes, and also to modulate the functionality of nucleic acid enzymes.
Acidithiobacillus albertensis is an extremely acidophilic, mesophilic, obligatory autotrophic sulfur-oxidizer, with potential importance in the bioleaching of sulfidic metal ores, first described in the 1980s. Here we present the draft genome sequence of Acidithiobacillus albertensis DSM 14366T, thereby both filling a long-standing gap in the genomics of the acidithiobacilli, and providing further insight into the understanding of the biology of the non iron-oxidizing members of the Acidithiobacillus genus. The assembled genome is 3,1 Mb, and contains 47 tRNAs, tmRNA gene and 2 rRNA operons, along with 3149 protein-coding predicted genes. The Whole Genome Shotgun project was deposited in DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank under the accession MOAD00000000.
Permanently frozen (approx. 3.5 Ma) alluvial Neogene sediments exposed in the Aldan river valley at the Mammoth Mountain (Eastern Siberia) are unique, ancient, and poorly studied permafrost environments. So far, the structure of the indigenous bacterial community has remained unknown. Use of 16S metagenomic analysis with total DNA isolation using DNA Spin Kit for Soil (MO-Bio) and QIAamp DNA Stool Mini Kit (Qiagen) has revealed the major and minor bacterial lineages in the permafrost alluvium sediments. In sum, 61 Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs) with 31,239 reads (Qiagen kit) and 15,404 reads (Mo-Bio kit) could be assigned to the known taxa. Only three phyla, Bacteroidetes, Proteobacteria and Firmicutes, comprised > 5% of the OTUs abundance and accounted for 99% of the total reads. OTUs pertaining to the top families (Chitinophagaceae, Caulobacteraceae, Sphingomonadaceae, Bradyrhizobiaceae, Halomonadaceae) held > 90% of reads. The abundance of Actinobacteria was less (0.7%), whereas members of other phyla (Deinococcus-Thermus, Cyanobacteria/Chloroplast, Fusobacteria, and Acidobacteria) constituted a minor fraction of reads. The bacterial community in the studied ancient alluvium differs from other permafrost sediments, mainly by predominance of Bacteroidetes (> 52%). The diversity of this preserved bacterial community has the potential to cause effects unknown if prompted to thaw and spread with changing climate. Therefore, this study elicits further reason to study how reintroduction of these ancient bacteria could affect the surrounding ecosystem, including current bacterial species.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in many biological processes, and its level in plasma and other biological fluids is closely related to many diseases. In this work, a selective room-temperature phosphorescence (RTP) detection method for miRNA was developed based on a duplex-specific nuclease (DSN) -assisted signal amplification strategy and phosphorescence resonance energy transfer (PRET) between poly-diallyldimethylammonium chloride-modified quantum dots (QDs@PDDA) and 6-carboxy-X-rhodamine-modified miRNA sequences complementary oligonucleotide (ROX-ssDNA). The positively charged QDs@PDDA could adsorb negatively charged ROX-ssDNA by electrostatic interaction, whereas the RTP signal of QDs@PDDA could be efficiently quenched by ROX-ssDNA via PRET. In the presence of microRNA-21 (miR-21) and DSN, miR-21 hybridized with ROX-ssDNA initially to form a DNA-RNA heteroduplex as the substrate of DSN, then ssDNA in DNA-RNA heteroduplex would be cleaved into small fragments by DSN and liberate miR-21 to hybridize with another ROX-ssDNA. Eventually, due to weak interaction between ROX-ssDNA fragments and QDs@PDDA, PRET efficiency continually decreased whereas the RTP signal was significantly amplified. By employing the strategy above, quantitative detection of miR-21 in the range of 0.25–40 nM with a detection limit of 0.16 nM was realized, showing excellent performance with simplicity, good selectivity and the ability to be a promising method for miRNA detection.
Nucleotide excision repair is initiated by two different damage recognition subpathways, global genome repair (GGR) and transcription-coupled repair (TCR). In GGR, XPC detects DNA lesions and recruits TFIIH via interaction with the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain of TFIIH subunit p62. In TCR, an elongating form of RNA Polymerase II detects a lesion on the transcribed strand and recruits TFIIH by an unknown mechanism. Here, we found that the TCR initiation factor UVSSA forms a stable complex with the PH domain of p62 via a short acidic string in the central region of UVSSA, and determined the complex structure by NMR. The acidic string of UVSSA binds strongly to the basic groove of the PH domain by inserting Phe408 and Val411 into two pockets, highly resembling the interaction mechanism of XPC with p62. Mutational binding analysis validated the structure and identified residues crucial for binding. TCR activitywas markedly diminished inUVSSAdeficient cells expressing UVSSA mutated at Phe408 or Val411. Thus, a common TFIIH recruitment mechanism is shared by UVSSA in TCR and XPC in GGR.
MicroRNAs (miRNA) are small, noncoding RNA molecules with a master role in the regulation of important tasks in different critical processes of cancer pathogenesis. Because there are different miRNAs implicated in all the stages of cancer, for example, functioning as oncogenes, this makes these small molecules suitable targets for cancer diagnosis and therapy. RNA-mediated interference has been one major approach for sequence-specific regulation of gene expression in eukaryotic organisms. Recently, the CRISPR (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats)/Cas9 system, first identified in bacteria and archaea as an adaptive immune response to invading genetic material, has been explored as a sequence-specific molecular tool for editing genomic sequences for basic research in life sciences and for therapeutic purposes. There is growing evidence that small noncoding RNAs, including miRNAs, can be targeted by the CRISPR/Cas9 system despite their lacking an open reading frame to evaluate functional loss. Thus, CRISPR/Cas9 technology represents a novel gene-editing strategy with compelling robustness, specificity, and stability for the modification of miRNA expression. Here, I summarize key features of current knowledge of genomic editing by CRISPR/Cas9 technology as a feasible strategy for globally interrogating miRNA gene function and miRNA-based therapeutic intervention. Alternative emerging strategies for nonviral delivery of CRISPR/Cas9 core components into human cells in a clinical context are also analyzed critically.
Background: The HIV-1 DNA reservoir is an important marker that reflects viro-immunological status and can be affected by multiple viral or cellular factors. Determining the potential factors associated with the size of the HIV-1 DNA reservoir benefits the surveillance of disease progression and antiretroviral treatments. Methods: We conducted a case control study to explore the factors that may affect the level of HIV-1 DNA. The level of HIV-1 total DNA in peripheral blood at 5 time points was quantified by quantitative PCR. Chronically HIV-1-infected patients whose cell-associated HIV-1 DNA levels were below the detection limit after receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) for 96 weeks were identified (group 1), and patients who still had detectable levels of cell-associated HIV-1 DNA after ATR treatment were used as the control (group 2). Results: Twenty-one patients with ultralow levels of cell-associated HIV-1 DNA [<20 copies/106 peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)] presented with a lower CD8+ T-cell count (average: 511 ± 191 versus 715 ± 256 cells/μL, p = 0.013) and a higher CD4/CD8 ratio (average: 1.04 ± 0.37 versus 0.72 ± 0.32, respectively, p = 0.002) at week 96. In the multivariate analysis, patients with a higher CD4/CD8 ratio at week 96 were more likely to have levels of HIV-1 DNA below the detection limit (per 0.1 increase, OR = 1.29, 95% CI, 1.05-1.59, p = 0.017). Conclusion: After matching baseline HIV-1 DNA levels, a higher CD4/CD8 ratio at week 96 was the only factor associated with an ultralow level of HIV-1 DNA. The CD4/CD8 ratio can be used as an easy biomarker to help monitor patients on ART who will be selected to participate in eradication studies.
Viral internal ribosomes entry site (IRES) elements coordinate the recruitment of the host translation machinery to direct the initiation of viral protein synthesis. Within hepatitis C virus (HCV)-like IRES elements, the sub-domain IIId(1) is crucial for recruiting the 40S ribosomal subunit. However, some HCV-like IRES elements possess an additional subdomain, termed IIId2, whose function remains unclear. Herein, we show that IIId2 sub-domains from divergent viruses have different functions. The IIId2 sub-domain present in Seneca valley virus (SVV), a picornavirus, is dispensable for IRES activity, while the IIId2 sub-domains of two pestiviruses, classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and border disease virus (BDV), are required for 80S ribosomes assembly and IRES activity. Unlike in SVV, the deletion of IIId2 from the CSFV and BDV IRES elements impairs initiation of translation by inhibiting the assembly of 80S ribosomes. Consequently, this negatively affects the replication of CSFV and BDV. Finally, we show that the SVV IIId2 sub-domain is required for efficient viral RNA synthesis and growth of SVV, but not for IRES function. This study sheds light on the molecular evolution of viruses by clearly demonstrating that conserved RNA structures, within distantly related RNA viruses, have acquired different roles in the virus life cycles.
Crosstalk between growth factors (GFs) and steroid hormones recurs in embryogenesis and is co-opted in pathology, but underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Our data from mammary cells imply that the crosstalk between the epidermal GF and glucocorticoids (GCs) involves transcription factors like p53 and NF-κB, along with reduced pausing and traveling of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) at both promoters and bodies of GF-inducible genes. Essentially, GCs inhibit positive feedback loops activated by GFs and stimulate the reciprocal inhibitory loops. As expected, no alterations in DNA methylation accompany the transcriptional events instigated by either stimulus, but forced demethylation of regulatory regions broadened the repertoire of GF-inducible genes. We report that enhancers, like some promoters, are poised for activation by GFs and GCs. In addition, within the cooperative interface of the crosstalk, GFs enhance binding of the GC receptor to DNA and, in synergy with GCs, promote productive RNAPII elongation. Reciprocally, within the antagonistic interface GFs hyper-acetylate chromatin at unmethylated promoters and enhancers of genes involved in motility, but GCs hypoacetylate the corresponding regions. In conclusion, unmethylated genomic regions that encode feedback regulatory modules and differentially recruit RNAPII and acetylases/deacetylases underlie the crosstalk between GFs and a steroid hormone.
Background. The genus Norovirus comprises large genetic diversity, and new GII.4 variants emerge every 2-3 years. It is unknown in which host these new variants originate. Here we study whether prolonged shedders within the immunocompromised population could be a reservoir for newly emerging strains. Methods. Sixty-five fecal samples from 16 immunocompromised patients were retrospectively selected. Isolated viral RNA was enriched by hybridization with a custom norovirus whole-genome RNA bait set and deep sequenced on the Illumina MiSeq platform. Results. Patients shed virus for average 352 days (range, 76-716 days). Phylogenetic analysis showed distinct GII.4 variants in 3 of 13 patients (23%). The viral mutation rates were variable between patients but did not differ between various immune status groups. All within-host GII.4 viral populations showed amino acid changes at blocking epitopes over time, and the majority of VP1 amino acid mutations were located at the capsid surface. Conclusions. This study found viruses in immunocompromised hosts that are genetically distinct from viruses circulating in the general population, and these patients therefore may contain a reservoir for newly emerging strains. Future studies need to determine whether these new strains are of risk to other immunocompromised patients and the general population.
In our previous study, we investigated the regulatory relationship between lncRNAs, miRNA, and mRNAs in an effort to shed light onto the regulatory mechanisms involved in sheep fecundity. As an extension of this study, here, we aimed to identify potential regulators of sheep fecundity using a genome-wide analysis of miRNAs and the methylated genes encoding mRNAs and lncRNAs in the ovaries of Dorset sheep (low fecundity) and Small Tail Han ewes (high fecundity) with the genotype BB (Han BB) and the genotype ++ (Han ++) by performing RNA-Seq and MeDIP-Seq analyses. Methylated coding-non-coding gene co-expression networks for Han and Dorset sheep were constructed using the methylated genes encoding the differentially expressed mRNAs and lncRNAs identified in this study. In the Han BB vs. Dorset comparison, the lncRNAs TTC26 and MYH15 had the largest degree. Similarly, the lncRNA NYAP1 had the largest degree in the Han ++ vs. Dorset comparison. None of the methylated genes encoding lncRNAs were co-expressed with the methylated genes encoding mRNAs in the Han BB vs. Han ++ comparison. The methylated genes encoding lncRNAs identified here may play a vital regulatory role in sheep breeding. Our results suggest that miRNAs might play a key role in sheep prolificacy by regulating target genes related to thyroid hormone synthesis, and methylated genes encoding lncRNAs associated with tight junctions might contribute to the high breeding rate in Han sheep. These findings may contribute to a deeper understanding of sheep prolificacy.
Epigenetic changes including DNA methylation, histone modifications and ncRNAs/miRNAs are associated with regulation of DNA chromatin and specifically, gene transcription. Hence, these produce eminent effects upon proto-oncogenes, tumor-suppressors and key cancer-regulatory signaling pathways. Understanding of epigenomic regulation of HER2 overexpression and signaling may help uncover the unmatchable physiology of HER2 gene/protein. Moreover, this may also aid in resolving the major issue of resistance-development towards HER2 targeted agents (trastuzumab and lapatinib), since epigenetic alterations are important therapeutic markers and modulate the response towards HER2 targeted therapy. Therefore, in this review the information regarding various epigenetic markers implicated in HER2 positive breast cancer susceptibility and therapeutic-strategies has been compiled.
, part of Springer Nature.DNA methylation is the most important epigenetic regulatory strategy that is involved in various biological processes, including environmental stress response. In the present study, the potential contribution of DNA methylation-mediated gene regulation in a high-temperature-tolerant strain of Pyropia haitanensis (Z-61) was investigated by using the methylation-sensitive amplification polymorphism (MSAP) assay. With high temperature, the level of global DNA methylation (5-mC) in Z-61 decreased from 2.21% (control) to 1.36% (12 h) and 0.60% (144 h). MSAP analysis indicated that the total methylation ratio (%) decreased from 30.19% (control) to 15.82% (12 h) and 16.89% (144 h) and that the demethylation of fully methylated fragments was the main contributor of the DNA methylation alterations. A total of 55 polymorphic bands representing fragments that were generated during methylation/demethylation events in different samples were randomly selected and sequenced, of which 29 fragments were situated within a gene, whereas the others were located within noncoding regions or promoters. The 29 MSAP fragments consisted of 18 fragments that were highly expressed as indicated by RNA-seq analysis and 11 genes that exhibited either very low or no expression at all time points. BLASTN analysis indicated that the methylated fragments situated within genes are homologous to those involved in numerous processes, including abiotic stress response, programmed cell death, photosynthesis, energy metabolism, signal transduction, protein synthesis, and transposon activation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on changes in methylation patterns in macroalgae under environmental stress, and our findings provide insights into the elucidation of the mechanism underlying stress adaptation in P. haitanensis.
High throughput analysis of miRNAs is of great significance to clinical and biomedical applications. In this work, we have developed a highly sensitive and selective chemiluminescence imaging array (CLIA) for simultaneous detection of three miRNAs with high throughput, easy operation and low cost. In this assay, three kinds of hairpins that can specially recognize respective miRNAs (miR-155, miR-let-7a and miR-141) are parallel modified on the magnetic beads (MBs). The employment of MBs enables quick sorting of multiplex targets in high yield and purity with high throughput. Upon introduction of the target miRNAs, they hybridize to the corresponding hairpins and initiate the DNA machines with the assistance of Klenow fragment exo- DNA polymerase and Nb.BbvCI NEase, achieving exponential amplification of targets. After that, the toehold-mediated strand displacement (TMSD) reactions are performed through sequential addition of displacement probes under magnetic separation, resulting in the release of HRP-tagged DNA hybrids in solution for CL imaging and recovery of MBs for repetitive use. This CLIA method demonstrates ultrahigh sensitivity with detection limits down to fM level, wide linear range over 5 orders of magnitude, excellent selectivity to distinguish one-base mismatched target miRNA, and good performance in real sample analysis. Together with the advantages of high throughput, easy operation, acceptable accuracy, and good recyclability and reproducibility, the proposed multiplex CLIA method holds great potential in practical applications, such as profiling the pattern of miRNA expression, disease screening, biomedical research, and so on.
MicroRNA 21 (MIR21) has garnered much attention in recent years as an important disease biomarker. The detection of it in human system shows great significance for the healthy evaluation and major diseases early detection. Herein, a novel approach tactfully manipulates the in-situ precise preparation of copper nanoclusters on overlapping Y-shaped ds-DNA for MIR21 analysis were developed in the proposed integrated aptasensor. In the presence of target MIR21, overlapping Y-shaped ds-DNA was constructed on electrode. Copper nanoclusters were in-situ prepared on this effective template for target detection. Taking advantage of exonuclease T7 triggered targets recycling, hybridization chain reaction (HCR) and copper nanoclusters triple amplification strategy, linear detection of MIR21 was achieved from 10 pM to 0.1 fM with a detection limit down to 10 aM (S/N > 3). This approach provides a good model for integrating both synthesis and detection into one electrochemistry component. It showed promising potential for applications in aptamer related target detection in human serum analysis.
A total of 1040 fecal samples, collected from 12 dairy cattle farms in Hebei and Tianjin, near the Bohai area of China, were screened for Cryptosporidium spp., Giardia duodenalis and Enterocytozoon bieneusi by polymerase chain reaction. The overall prevalence for Cryptosporidium, G. duodenalis and E. bieneusi was 1.0% (n = 10), 4.7% (n = 49) and 19.4% (n = 202), respectively. Ten Cryptosporidium-positive samples were identified as C. parvum by DNA sequence analysis of the small subunit rRNA (SSU rRNA) gene. DNA sequencing of the 60-kDa glycoprotein gene revealed that the C. parvum samples were all subtype IIdA19G1. Forty-nine G. duodenalis-positive samples belonged to assemblage E (n = 47) and assemblage E mixed with A (n = 2), based on the sequenced SSU rRNA, triosephosphate isomerase, and glutamate dehydrogenase genes. Sequence analysis of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) gene identified six known E. bieneusi genotypes, I (n = 87), J (n = 83), BEB4 (n = 18), BEB6 (n = 3), N (n = 1) and Ebpc (n = 1), along with three new genotypes, CHC6 (n = 1), CHC7 (n = 1) and CHC8 (n = 7). Phylogenetic analysis showed that Ebpc belonged to zoonotic group 1, whereas the other E. bieneusi genotypes clustered within group 2. More studies are needed to better understand the species distributions and public health significance of these pathogens in the study areas.
Background: Bovine anaplasmosis is an endemic disease in tropical and subtropical areas. It is caused by a bacterium named Anaplasma marginale, and represents an economic problem for cattle farmers due to the losses it generates, such as: mortalities, reduced production, quarantine measures, treatments and control of vectors. The method most often used to diagnose this haemotrophic bacterium is direct examination on blood smear, which sensitivity and specificity are limited compared to other methods such as PCR. The present study aimed at investigating the presence of A. marginale in dairy cattle of Luz de América commune, province of Santo Domingo de los Tsachilas. Two PCRs were used to amplify specific regions of the Rickettsia for its molecular identification. Results: At first, 151 blood samples were tested: msp5 specific gene of A. marginale was identified in 130 samples, meaning 86.1% of them were infected by the rickettsia. Two positive samples were further randomly selected to confirm the presence of A. marginale through amplification, cloning and sequencing of the conserved region of gene 16S rRNA. The analysis of sequences obtained through cloning revealed a 100% identity between both samples and those registered in GenBank for A. marginale. Conclusion: This is the first report and molecular identification of A. marginale in the bovine population of Ecuador and its prevalence was high at the level of farms and animals. These results demonstrate the importance of proceeding to evaluate and characterize bovine Anaplasmosis in Ecuador in order to establish control measures and reduce their impact.
Imprinted genes occur in discrete clusters that are coordinately regulated by shared DNA elements called Imprinting Control Regions. H19 and Igf2 are linked imprinted genes that play critical roles in development. Loss of imprinting (LOI) at the IGF2/H19 locus on the maternal chromosome is associated with the developmental disorder Beckwith Wiedemann Syndrome (BWS) and with several cancers. Here we use comprehensive genetic and genomic analyses to follow muscle development in a mouse model of BWS to dissect the separate and shared roles for misexpression of Igf2 and H19 in the disease phenotype. We show that LOI results in defects in muscle differentiation and hypertrophy and identify primary downstream targets: Igf2 overexpression results in over-activation of MAPK signaling while loss of H19 lncRNA prevents normal down regulation of p53 activity and therefore results in reduced AKT/mTOR signaling. Moreover, we demonstrate instances where H19 and Igf2 misexpression work separately, cooperatively, and antagonistically to establish the developmental phenotype. This study thus identifies new biochemical roles for the H19 lncRNA and underscores that LOI phenotypes are multigenic so that complex interactions will contribute to disease outcomes.
Tissue specific stem cells are indispensable contributors to adult tissue maintenance, repair, and regeneration. In skeletal muscle, satellite cells (SCs) are the resident muscle stem cell population and are required to maintain skeletal muscle homeostasis throughout life. Increasing evidence suggests that SCs are a heterogeneous cell population with substantial biochemical and functional diversity. A major limitation in the field is an incomplete understanding of the nature and extent of this cellular heterogeneity. Single cell analyses are well suited to addressing this issue, especially when coupled to unbiased profiling paradigms such as high throughout RNA sequencing. We performed single cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on freshly isolated muscle satellite cells and found a surprising degree of heterogeneity at multiple levels, from muscle-specific transcripts to the broader SC transcriptome. We leveraged several comparative bioinformatics techniques and found that individual SCs enrich for unique transcript clusters. We propose that these gene expression “fingerprints” may contribute to observed functional SC diversity. Overall, these studies underscore the importance of several established SC signaling pathways/processes on a single cell level, implicate novel regulators of SC heterogeneity, and lay the groundwork for further investigation into SC heterogeneity in health and disease.
Background: Lactose provides an easily-digested energy source for neonates, and is the primary carbohydrate in milk in most species. Bovine lactose is also a key component of many human food products. However, compared to analyses of other milk components, the genetic control of lactose has been little studied. Here we present the first GWAS focussed on analysis of milk lactose traits. Results: Using a discovery population of 12,000 taurine dairy cattle, we detail 27 QTL for lactose concentration and yield, and subsequently validate the effects of 26 of these loci in a distinct population of 18,000 cows. We next present data implicating causative genes and variants for these QTL. Fine mapping of these regions using imputed, whole genome sequence-resolution genotypes reveals protein-coding candidate causative variants affecting the ABCG2, DGAT1, STAT5B, KCNH4, NPFFR2 and RNF214 genes. Eleven of the remaining QTL appear to be driven by regulatory effects, suggested by the presence of co-locating, co-segregating eQTL discovered using mammary RNA sequence data from a population of 357 lactating cows. Pathway analysis of genes representing all lactose-associated loci shows significant enrichment of genes located in the endoplasmic reticulum, with functions related to ion channel activity mediated through the LRRC8C, P2RX4, KCNJ2 and ANKH genes. A number of the validated QTL are also found to be associated with additional milk volume, fat and protein phenotypes. Conclusions: Overall, these findings highlight novel candidate genes and variants involved in milk lactose regulation, whose impacts on membrane transport mechanisms reinforce the key osmo-regulatory roles of lactose in milk.
Spermatogenesis is threatened by DNA alkylating agents, one major category of DNA damaging agents. Currently, little is known about the alterations in transcriptome profiling of the mouse spermatogenic cells in response to DNA alkylation at distinct stages of spermatogenesis. In this study, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed in pachytene spermatocytes (PS) and round spermatids (RS) at 0 or 30 min following Methyl Methanesulfonate (MMS) treatment and with untreated controls. A large number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by comparison of the three groups in PS and RS, respectively. Functional analyses of all DEGs highlighted the protein ubiquitination pathway and DNA damage response (DDR) network being the two main biological processes in common in the two cell types. Further analyses of the DEGs with 2-fold or more changes between 30 min repair and control group indicated that several cytokine signaling pathways were the most strongly affected in PS and DDR related pathways in RS, respectively. Gene ontology (GO) analyses directly showed differential biological process (BP) affected between PS and RS, with “regulation of transcription” being most overrepresented in PS and “cellular response to stress” in RS, respectively. Moreover, 374 DDR-related genes in PS and 158 in RS among all DEGs were filtered and clustered, which showed dynamic expression patterns in PS and RS. Our analyses provide a transcriptional landscape for male germ cells in response to MMS during spermatogenesis.
The hypomethylation of DNA may support tumor progression; however, the mechanism underlying this relationship is not clear. Several studies have demonstrated that the in vitro application of the methyl donor S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) leads to promoter remethylation and the downregulation of proto-oncogene expression in cancer cells. It is not clear if this represents a general mechanism of SAM or is limited to selected genes. We examined this problem using new bisulfite sequencing and transcriptomic technologies. Treatment with SAM caused the downregulation of proliferation, migration, and invasion of prostate cancer (PC-3) cells. RNA sequencing revealed the genome-wide downregulation of genes involved in proliferation, migration, invasion, and angiogenesis. Real-time PCR of a subset of the genes confirmed these results. Reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS) displayed only minor differential methylation between treated cells and controls. In summary, we confirmed the anti-proliferative and anti-invasive effects of SAM. Additionally, we observed anti-migratory effects and downregulation of genes, especially those related to cancerogenesis. For some of the related genes, this is the first reported evidence of an association with prostate cancer. However, genome-wide modifications in methylation profiles were not observed by RRBS; thus, they are obviously not a major cause of alteration in transcription profiles and anti-cancer effects.
Background: The criteria for diagnosing depression are based on behavioral observation and self-reporting of symptoms by the patients or guardians without any biological validation of the disease. This study aimed to identify long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) as robust and predictive biomarkers for diagnosis and therapy response in major depressive disorder (MDD). Material/Methods: We used human lncRNA 3.0 microarray profiling (which covers 30,586 human lncRNAs), using PBMCs from five MDD patients and five controls. Differentially expressed lncRNAs in the PBMCs of MDD patients were identified, of which 10 candidate lncRNAs were selected for real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis in a larger cohort of 138 MDD patients and 63 healthy controls. Then among the 138 MDD patients who received standard antidepressant treatment, 30 were randomly selected for lncRNAs expression retesting and symptomatology assessments after three-weeks and six-weeks of antidepressant treatment. Results: Six lncRNAs (TCONS_00019174, ENST00000566208, NONHSAG045500, ENST00000517573, NONHSAT034045, and NONHSAT142707) were significantly downregulated in MDD patients compared to control patients, and the area under the receiver operator curve (ROC) of these six lncRNAs cases, combined, was 0.719 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.617–0.821). There was no difference in the expression of these six lncRNAs based on gender (p>0.05) or age (p>0.05). Conclusions: These results suggest that the combined expression of six lncRNAs in PBMCs may serve as a potential biomarker for diagnosis and therapy response of MDD in the clinical setting.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder with unknown genetic and environmental causation in most of the affected individuals. On the other hand, there are a growing number of ASD-associated syndromes, where the exact genetic origin can be revealed. Here we report a method, which included the targeted next generation sequencing (NGS) and filtering of 101 ASD associated genes, followed by database search. Next, RNA sequencing was used to study the region of interest at the transcriptional level. Using this workflow, we identified a de novo mutation in the euchromatic histone-lysine N-methyltransferase 1 gene (EHMT1) of an autistic patient with dysmorphisms. Sequencing of EHMT1 transcripts showed that the premature termination codon (Trp1138Ter) created by a single nucleotide change elicited nonsense-mediated mRNA decay, which led to haploinsufficiency already at the transcriptional level. Database and literature search provided evidence that this mutation caused Kleefstra syndrome (KS), which was confirmed by the presence of the disorder-specific phenotype in the patient. We provide a proof of principle that the implemented method is capable to elucidate the genetic etiology of individuals with syndromic autism. The novel mutation detected in the EHMT1 gene is responsible for KS's symptoms. In addition, further genetic factors might be involved in the ASD pathogenesis of the patient including a missense DPP6 mutation (Arg322Cys), which segregated with the autistic phenotype within the family.
Background Most of mutations in the LMNA gene are unique and have been found in only a few unrelated families. The clinical interpretation of new genetic variants, especially beyond the coding area and canonical splice sites, is proving to be difficult and requires advanced investigation. Methods This study included patients with progressive cardiac conduction defects with neuromuscular involvement. The clinical evaluation included medical history and 24-h Holter monitoring. The genetic evaluation included mutation screening in the LMNA gene by the Sanger sequence. Sanger sequencing was followed by RT-PCR of the target fragment of cDNA. In silico modeling was performed with CCBulder and Modeller software. Results The diagnosis of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1B (LGMD1B) was established. The new intronic variant c.513 + 45 T > G was found in the LMNA gene in the proband and affected daughter. The insertion of 45 bp was confirmed in the proband's cDNA. The structural and possible functional effects of the aberrant protein were predicted. Conclusions Variant c.513 + 45 T > G in the LMNA gene likely translates into the longer lamin A/C proteins with additional 15 amino acids. This variant is thought to be pathogenic. Intronic variants in the LMNA gene located beside canonic splice sites may be responsible for some genotype-negative cases with clinical phenotype of laminopathies.
Objective: To analyze the genotypes of Brucella melitensis strains isolated in Shanxi province by using multiple-locus variable-number tandem-repeat 2B typing (MLVA-2B) and rpoB typing. Methods: Brucella strains were isolated by culturing the blood samples collected from patients with brucellosis in Shanxi province from 2014 to 2015 and then were identified with conventional methods. MLVA panel 2 (eight loci)was used to identify the genotypes of the Brucella melitensis strains, and the results were further analyzed by cluster analysis. The rpoB gene was molecularly characterized by PCR amplification and DNA sequencing in those strains. The rpoB nucleotide sequences of all Brucella strains were compared with the published rpoB gene sequence of the Brucella melitensis strain 16M to reveal specific nucleotide variations. Results: A total of 41 Brucella strains were isolated in 2014 and 2015 and all of them belonged to Brucella melitensis biovar 3. Those strains were divided into five groups and thirty-one MLVA types based on MLVA panel 2B with a genetic similarity ranging from 64.78% to 100%. Four mutation sites in rpoB gene were investigated in the 41 Brucella strains and based on that analysis, those strains were grouped as rpoB-2 (629-GTG/985-GTC/1309-CTA, 95.12%) and rpoB-2 variant (629-GTG/1309-CTA, 4.88%). Conclusion: MLVA genotyping was significant for analyzing the sources, epidemics and outbreaks of brucellosis. Analyzing the panel 2B loci was a simple and efficient way for genotyping the Brucella melitensis strains isolated in Shanxi province. The 41 strains belonged to two genotypes on the basis of rpoB typing, including 39 strains ofrpoB-2 genotype and 2 strains of a new genotype rpoB-2 variant. There might be a correlation between MLVA andrpoB genotyping.
The DNA mismatch repair (MMR) system corrects DNA mismatches in the genome. It is also required for the cytotoxic response of O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT)-deficient mammalian cells and yeast mgt1Δ rad52Δ cells to treatment with Sn1-type methylating agents, which produce cytotoxic O6-methylguanine (O6-mG) DNA lesions. Specifically, an activity of the MMR system causes degradation of irreparable O6-mG-T mispair-containing DNA, triggering cell death; this process forms the basis of treatments of MGMT-deficient cancers with Sn1-type methylating drugs. Recent research supports the view that degradation of irreparable O6-mG-T mispair-containing DNA by the MMR system and CAF-1-dependent packaging of the newly replicated DNA into nucleosomes are two concomitant processes that interact with each other. Here, we studied whether CAF-1 modulates the activity of the MMR system in the cytotoxic response to Sn1-type methylating agents. We found that CAF-1 suppresses the activity of the MMR system in the cytotoxic response of yeast mgt1Δ rad52Δ cells to the prototypic Sn1-type methylating agent N-methyl-N′-nitro-nitrosoguanidine. We also report evidence that in human MGMT-deficient cell-free extracts, CAF-1-dependent packaging of irreparable O6-mG-T mispair-containing DNA into nucleosomes suppresses its degradation by the MMR system. Taken together, these findings suggest that CAF-1-dependent incorporation of irreparable O6-mG-T mispair-containing DNA into nucleosomes suppresses its degradation by the MMR system, thereby defending the cell against killing by the Sn1-type methylating agent.
DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair by non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) in human cells is initiated by Ku heterodimer binding to a DSB, followed by recruitment of core NHEJ factors including DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs), XRCC4-like factor (XLF), and XRCC4 (X4)-DNA ligase IV (L4). Ku also interacts with accessory factors such as aprataxin and polynucleotide kinase/phosphatase-like factor (APLF). Yet, how these factors interact to tether, process, and ligate DSB ends while allowing regulation and chromatin interactions remains enigmatic. Here, small angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) and mutational analyses show APLF is largely an intrinsically disordered protein that binds Ku, Ku/DNA-PKcs (DNA-PK), and X4L4 within an extended flexible NHEJ core complex. X4L4 assembles with Ku heterodimers linked to DNA-PKcs via flexible Ku80 C-terminal regions (Ku80CTR) in a complex stabilized through APLF interactions with Ku, DNA-PK, and X4L4. Collective results unveil the solution architecture of the six-protein complex and suggest cooperative assembly of an extended flexible NHEJ core complex that supports APLF accessibility while possibly providing flexible attachment of the core complex to chromatin. The resulting dynamic tethering furthermore, provides geometric access of L4 catalytic domains to the DNA ends during ligation and of DNA-PKcs for targeted phosphorylation of other NHEJ proteins as well as trans-phosphorylation of DNA-PKcs on the opposing DSB without disrupting the core ligation complex. Overall the results shed light on evolutionary conservation of Ku, X4, and L4 activities, while explaining the observation that Ku80CTR and DNA-PKcs only occur in a subset of higher eukaryotes.
Background: Gene annotations, such as those in GENCODE, are derived primarily from alignments of spliced cDNA sequences and protein sequences. The impact of RNA-seq data on annotation has been confined to major projects like ENCODE and Illumina Body Map 2.0. Results: We aligned 21,504 Illumina-sequenced human RNA-seq samples from the Sequence Read Archive (SRA) to the human genome and compared detected exon-exon junctions with junctions in several recent gene annotations. We found 56,861 junctions (18.6%) in at least 1000 samples that were not annotated, and their expression associated with tissue type. Junctions well expressed in individual samples tended to be annotated. Newer samples contributed few novel well-supported junctions, with the vast majority of detected junctions present in samples before 2013. We compiled junction data into a resource called intropolis available at http://intropolis.rail.bio. We used this resource to search for a recently validated isoform of the ALK gene and characterized the potential functional implications of unannotated junctions with publicly available TRAP-seq data. Conclusions: Considering only the variation contained in annotation may suffice if an investigator is interested only in well-expressed transcript isoforms. However, genes that are not generally well expressed and nonetheless present in a small but significant number of samples in the SRA are likelier to be incompletely annotated. The rate at which evidence for novel junctions has been added to the SRA has tapered dramatically, even to the point of an asymptote. Now is perhaps an appropriate time to update incomplete annotations to include splicing present in the now-stable snapshot provided by the SRA.
BACKGROUND: The airways of healthy humans harbor a distinct microbial community. Perturbations in the microbial community have been associated with disease, yet little is known about the formation and development of a healthy airway microbiota in early life. Our goal was to understand the establishment of the airway microbiota within the first 3 months of life. We investigated the hypopharyngeal microbiota in the unselected COPSAC2010 cohort of 700 infants, using 16S rRNA gene sequencing of hypopharyngeal aspirates from 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months of age. RESULTS: Our analysis shows that majority of the hypopharyngeal microbiota of healthy infants belong to each individual's core microbiota and we demonstrate five distinct community pneumotypes. Four of these pneumotypes are dominated by the genera Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Moraxella, and Corynebacterium, respectively. Furthermore, we show temporal pneumotype changes suggesting a rapid development towards maturation of the hypopharyngeal microbiota and a significant effect from older siblings. Despite an overall common trajectory towards maturation, individual infants' microbiota are more similar to their own, than to others, over time. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate a consolidation of the population of indigenous bacteria in healthy airways and indicate distinct trajectories in the early development of the hypopharyngeal microbiota.
Host-directed therapies (HDTs) constitute promising alternatives to traditional therapy that directly targets the pathogen but is often hampered by pathogen resistance. HDT could represent a new treatment strategy for leishmaniasis, a neglected tropical disease caused by the obligate intracellular parasite Leishmania. This protozoan develops exclusively within phagocytic cells, where infection relies on a complex molecular interplay potentially exploitable for drug targets. We previously identified naloxonazine, a compound specifically active against intracellular but not axenic Leishmania donovani. We evaluated here whether this compound could present a host cell-dependent mechanism of action. Microarray profiling of THP-1 macrophages treated with naloxonazine showed upregulation of vATPases, which was further linked to an increased volume of intracellular acidic vacuoles. Treatment of Leishmania-infected macrophages with the vATPase inhibitor concanamycin A abolished naloxonazine effects, functionally demonstrating that naloxonazine affects Leishmania amastigotes indirectly, through host cell vacuolar remodeling. These results validate amastigote-specific screening approaches as a powerful way to identify alternative host-encoded targets. Although the therapeutic value of naloxonazine itself is unproven, our results further demonstrate the importance of intracellular acidic compartments for host defense against Leishmania, highlighting the possibility of targeting this host cell compartment for anti-leishmanial therapy.
Both iron starvation and excess are detrimental to cellular life, especially for animal and plant pathogens since they always live in iron-limited environments produced by host immune responses. However, how organisms sense and respond to iron is incompletely understood. Herein, we reveal that in the phytopathogenic bacterium Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris, VgrS (also named ColS) is a membrane-bound receptor histidine kinase that senses extracytoplasmic iron limitation in the periplasm, while its cognate response regulator, VgrR, detects intracellular iron excess. Under iron-depleted conditions, dissociation of Fe3+from the periplasmic sensor region of VgrS activates the VgrS autophosphorylation and subsequent phosphotransfer to VgrR (ColR), an OmpR-family transcription factor that regulates bacterial responses to take up iron. VgrR-VgrS regulon and the consensus DNA binding motif of the transcription factor VgrR were dissected by comparative proteomic and ChIP-seq analyses, which revealed that in reacting to iron-depleted environments, VgrR directly or indirectly controls the expressions of hundreds of genes that are involved in various physiological cascades, especially those associated with iron-uptake. Among them, we demonstrated that the phosphorylated VgrR tightly represses the transcription of a special TonB-dependent receptor gene, tdvA. This regulation is a critical prerequisite for efficient iron uptake and bacterial virulence since activation of tdvA transcription is detrimental to these processes. When the intracellular iron accumulates, the VgrR-Fe2+interaction dissociates not only the binding between VgrR and the tdvA promoter, but also the interaction between VgrR and VgrS. This relieves the repression in tdvA transcription to impede continuous iron uptake and avoids possible toxic effects of excessive iron accumulation. Our results revealed a signaling system that directly senses both extracytoplasmic and intracellular iron to modulate bacterial iron homeostasis.
CONCLUSIONS: The preterm infant intestinal microbiome is influenced by postnatal time, birth weight, gestational age, and nutrition. Feeding with breast milk appears to mask the influence of birth weight, suggesting a protective effect against gut immaturity in the preterm infant. These findings suggest not only a microbial mechanism underpinning the body of evidence showing that breast milk promotes intestinal health in the preterm infant but also a dynamic interplay of host and dietary factors that facilitate the colonization of and enrichment for specific microbes during establishment of the preterm infant microbiota. RESULTS: Principal component analysis of 199 samples from 30 preterm infants (<32 weeks) over the first 60 days following birth showed that the intestinal microbiome was influenced by postnatal time (p < 0.001, R 2 = 0.13), birth weight (p < 0.001, R 2 = 0.08), and nutrition (p < 0.001, R 2 = 0.21). Infants who were fed breast milk had a greater initial bacterial diversity and a more gradual acquisition of diversity compared to infants who were fed infant formula. The microbiome of infants fed breast milk were more similar regardless of birth weight (p = 0.049), in contrast to the microbiome of infants fed infant formula, which clustered differently based on birth weight (p < 0.001). By adjusting for differences in gut maturity, an ordered succession of microbial phylotypes was observed in breast milk-fed infants, which appeared to be disrupted in those fed infant formula. Supplementation with pasteurized donor human milk was partially successful in promoting a microbiome more similar to breast milk-fed infants and moderating rapid increases in bacterial diversity. BACKGROUND: The initial acquisition and early development of the intestinal microbiome during infancy are important to human health across the lifespan. Mode of birth, antibiotic administration, environment of care, and nutrition have all been shown to play a role in the assembly of the intestinal microbiome during early life. For preterm infants, who are disproportionately at risk of inflammatory intestinal disease (i.e., necrotizing enterocolitis), a unique set of clinical factors influence the establishment of the microbiome. The purpose of this study was to establish the influence of nutritional exposures on the intestinal microbiome in a cohort of preterm infants early in life.
Previously, we showed that levels of sphingosine-1 phosphate receptor 3 (S1PR3) are increased in a panel of cultured human lung adenocarcinoma cell lines, and that S1PR3-mediated signaling pathways regulate proliferation, soft agar growth, and invasion of human lung adenocarcinoma cells in vitro. In the present study, we examine S1PR3 levels in human lung adenocarcinoma specimens. cDNA array and tumor microarray analysis shows that mRNA and protein levels of S1PR3 are significantly increased in human lung adenocarcinomas when compared with normal lung epithelial cells. Promoter analysis shows 16 candidate SMAD3 binding sites in the promoter region of S1PR3. ChIP indicates that TGF-β treatment stimulates the binding of SMAD3 to the promoter region of S1PR3. Luciferase reporter assay demonstrates that SMAD3 transactivates S1PR3 promoter. TGF-β stimulation or ectopic expression of TGF-β up-regulates S1PR3 levels in vitro and ex vivo. Pharmacologic inhibition of TGF-β receptor or SMAD3 abrogates the TGF-β-stimulated S1PR3 up-regulation. Moreover, S1PR3 knockdown dramatically inhibits tumor growth and lung metastasis, whereas ectopic expression of S1PR3 promotes the growth of human lung adenocarcinoma cells in animals. Pharmacological inhibition of S1PR3 profoundly inhibits the growth of lung carcinoma in mice. Our studies suggest that levels of S1PR3 are up-regulated in human lung adenocarcinomas, at least in part due to the TGF-β/SMAD3 signaling axis. Furthermore, S1PR3 activity promotes the progression of human lung adenocarcinomas. Therefore, S1PR3 may represent a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of deadly lung adenocarcinomas.
Background: Receptor tyrosine kinase, c-Kit (CD117) plays a pivotal role in the maintenance and expansion of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs). Additionally, over-expression and/or mutational activation of c-Kit have been implicated in numerous malignant diseases including acute myeloid leukemia. However, the translational regulation of c-Kit expression remains largely unknown. Methods and results: We demonstrated that loss of Pim1 led to specific down-regulation of c-Kit expression in HSPCs of Pim1/ mice and Pim1/2/3/ triple knockout (TKO) mice, and resulted in attenuated ERK and STAT3 signaling in response to stimulation with stem cell factor. Transduction of c-Kit restored the defects in colony forming capacity seen in HSPCs from Pim1/ and TKO mice. Pharmacologic inhibition and genetic modification studies using human megakaryoblastic leukemia cells confirmed the regulation of c-Kit expression by Pim1 kinase: i.e., Pim1-specific shRNA knockdown down-regulated the expression of c-Kit whereas overexpression of Pim1 up-regulated the expression of c-Kit. Mechanistically, inhibition or knockout of Pim1 kinase did not affect the transcription of c-Kit gene. Pim1 kinase enhanced c-Kit 35S methionine labeling and increased the incorporation of c-Kit mRNAs into the polysomes and monosomes, demonstrating that Pim1 kinase regulates c-Kit expression at the translational level. Conclusions: Our study provides the first evidence that Pim1 regulates c-Kit gene translation and has important implications in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and cancer treatment.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
, part of Springer Nature. All rights reserved. Many functional RNAs have an evolutionarily conserved secondary structure. Conservation of RNA base pairing induces pairwise covariations in sequence alignments. We developed a computational method, R-scape (RNA Structural Covariation Above Phylogenetic Expectation), that quantitatively tests whether covariation analysis supports the presence of a conserved RNA secondary structure. R-scape analysis finds no statistically significant support for proposed secondary structures of the long noncoding RNAs HOTAIR, SRA, and Xist.
S. Government.Background: The nucleocapsid (NC) domain of HIV-1 Gag is responsible for specific recognition and packaging of genomic RNA (gRNA) into new viral particles. This occurs through specific interactions between the Gag NC domain and the Psi packaging signal in gRNA. In addition to this critical function, NC proteins are also nucleic acid (NA) chaperone proteins that facilitate NA rearrangements during reverse transcription. Although the interaction with Psi and chaperone activity of HIV-1 NC have been well characterized in vitro, little is known about simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) NC. Non-human primates are frequently used as a platform to study retroviral infection in vivo; thus, it is important to understand underlying mechanistic differences between HIV-1 and SIV NC. Results: Here, we characterize SIV NC chaperone activity for the first time. Only modest differences are observed in the ability of SIV NC to facilitate reactions that mimic the minus-strand annealing and transfer steps of reverse transcription relative to HIV-1 NC, with the latter displaying slightly higher strand transfer and annealing rates. Quantitative single molecule DNA stretching studies and dynamic light scattering experiments reveal that these differences are due to significantly increased DNA compaction energy and higher aggregation capability of HIV-1 NC relative to the SIV protein. Using salt-titration binding assays, we find that both proteins are strikingly similar in their ability to specifically interact with HIV-1 Psi RNA. In contrast, they do not demonstrate specific binding to an RNA derived from the putative SIV packaging signal. Conclusions: Based on these studies, we conclude that (1) HIV-1 NC is a slightly more efficient NA chaperone protein than SIV NC, (2) mechanistic differences between the NA interactions of highly similar retroviral NC proteins are revealed by quantitative single molecule DNA stretching, and (3) SIV NC demonstrates cross-species recognition of the HIV-1 Psi RNA packaging signal.
, part of Springer Nature. All rights reserved.Coupling of structure-specific in vivo chemical modification to next-generation sequencing is transforming RNA secondary structure studies in living cells. The dominant strategy for detecting in vivo chemical modifications uses reverse transcriptase truncation products, which introduce biases and necessitate population-average assessments of RNA structure. Here we present dimethyl sulfate (DMS) mutational profiling with sequencing (DMS-MaPseq), which encodes DMS modifications as mismatches using a thermostable group II intron reverse transcriptase. DMS-MaPseq yields a high signal-to-noise ratio, can report multiple structural features per molecule, and allows both genome-wide studies and focused in vivo investigations of even low-abundance RNAs. We apply DMS-MaPseq for the first analysis of RNA structure within an animal tissue and to identify a functional structure involved in noncanonical translation initiation. Additionally, we use DMS-MaPseq to compare the in vivo structure of pre-mRNAs with their mature isoforms. These applications illustrate DMS-MaPseq's capacity to dramatically expand in vivo analysis of RNA structure.
, part of Springer Nature. All rights reserved. In recent years, major breakthroughs in RNA-modification-mediated regulation of gene expression have been made, leading to the emerging field of epitranscriptomics.Our understanding of the distribution, regulation and function of these dynamic RNA modifications is based on sequencing technologies. In this Review, we focus on the major mRNA modifications in the transcriptome of eukaryotic cells: N6-methyladenosine, N6, 2′-O-dimethyladenosine, 5-methylcytidine, 5-hydroxylmethylcytidine, inosine, pseudouridine and N1-methyladenosine. We discuss the sequencing technologies used to profile these epitranscriptomic marks, including scale, resolution, quantitative feature, pre-enrichment capability and the corresponding bioinformatics tools. We also discuss the challenges of epitranscriptome profiling and highlight the prospect of future detection tools. We aim to guide the choice of different detection methods and inspire new ideas in RNA biology.
, part of Springer Nature. All rights reserved.Structure probing coupled with high-throughput sequencing could revolutionize our understanding of the role of RNA structure in regulation of gene expression. Despite recent technological advances, intrinsic noise and high sequence coverage requirements greatly limit the applicability of these techniques. Here we describe a probabilistic modeling pipeline that accounts for biological variability and biases in the data, yielding statistically interpretable scores for the probability of nucleotide modification transcriptome wide. Using two yeast data sets, we demonstrate that our method has increased sensitivity, and thus our pipeline identifies modified regions on many more transcripts than do existing pipelines. Our method also provides confident predictions at much lower sequence coverage levels than those recommended for reliable structural probing. Our results show that statistical modeling extends the scope and potential of transcriptome-wide structure probing experiments.
BACKGROUND: The preterm microbiome is crucial to gut health and may contribute to necrotising enterocolitis (NEC), which represents the most significant pathology affecting preterm infants. From a cohort of 318 infants, <32 weeks gestation, we selected 7 infants who developed NEC (defined rigorously) and 28 matched controls. We performed detailed temporal bacterial (n = 641) and metabolomic (n = 75) profiling of the gut microbiome throughout the disease.RESULTS: A core community of Klebsiella, Escherichia, Staphyloccocus, and Enterococcus was present in all samples. Gut microbiota profiles grouped into six distinct clusters, termed preterm gut community types (PGCTs). Each PGCT reflected dominance by the core operational taxonomic units (OTUs), except of PGCT 6, which had high diversity and was dominant in bifidobacteria. While PGCTs 1-5 were present in infants prior to NEC diagnosis, PGCT 6 was comprised exclusively of healthy samples. NEC infants had significantly more PGCT transitions prior to diagnosis. Metabolomic profiling identified significant pathways associated with NEC onset, with metabolites involved in linoleate metabolism significantly associated with NEC diagnosis. Notably, metabolites associated with NEC were the lowest in PGCT 6.CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to integrate sequence and metabolomic stool analysis in preterm neonates, demonstrating that NEC does not have a uniform microbial signature. However, a diverse gut microbiome with a high abundance of bifidobacteria may protect preterm infants from disease. These results may inform biomarker development and improve understanding of gut-mediated mechanisms of NEC.
Despite their canonical two-fold symmetry, nucleosomes in biological contexts are often asymmetric: functionalized with post-translational modifications (PTMs), substituted with histone variants, and even lacking H2A/H2B dimers. Here we show that the Widom 601 nucleosome positioning sequence can produce hexasomes in a specific orientation on DNA, providing a useful tool for interrogating chromatin enzymes and allowing for the generation of nucleosomes with precisely defined asymmetry. Using this methodology, we demonstrate that the Chd1 chromatin remodeler from Saccharomyces cerevisiae requires H2A/H2B on the entry side for sliding, and thus, unlike the back-and-forth sliding observed for nucleosomes, Chd1 shifts hexasomes unidirectionally. Chd1 takes part in chromatin reorganization surrounding transcribing RNA polymerase II (Pol II), and using asymmetric nucleosomes we show that ubiquitin-conjugated H2B on the entry side stimulates nucleosome sliding by Chd1. We speculate that biased nucleosome and hexasome sliding due to asymmetry contributes to the packing of arrays observed in vivo.
BACKGROUND: Despite intense interest in the links between the microbiome and human health, little has been written about dysbiosis among ICU patients. We characterized microbial diversity in samples from 37 children in a pediatric ICU (PICU). Standard measures of alpha and beta diversity were calculated, and results were compared with data from adult and pediatric reference datasets. RESULTS: Bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences were analyzed from 71 total tongue swabs, 50 skin swabs, and 77 stool samples or rectal swabs. The mean age of the PICU patients was 2.9 years (range 1-9 years), and many were chronically ill children that had previously been hospitalized in the PICU. Relative to healthy adults and children, alpha diversity was decreased in PICU GI and tongue but not skin samples. Measures of beta diversity indicated differences in community membership at each body site between PICU, adult, and pediatric groups. Taxonomic alterations in the PICU included enrichment of gut pathogens such as Enterococcus and Staphylococcus at multiple body sites and depletion of commensals such as Faecalibacterium and Ruminococcus from GI samples. Alpha and beta diversity were unstable over time in patients followed longitudinally. We observed the frequent presence of "dominant" pathogens in PICU samples at relative abundance >50%. PICU samples were characterized by loss of site specificity, with individual taxa commonly present simultaneously at three sample sites on a single individual. Some pathogens identified by culture of tracheal aspirates were commonly observed in skin samples from the same patient. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the microbiota in critically ill children differs sharply from the microbiota of healthy children and adults. Acknowledgement of dysbiosis associated with critical illness could provide opportunities to modulate the microbiota with precision and thereby improve patient outcomes.
Pathogenesis of arterial hypertension is complex and in spite of the decades of studies is not yet entirely understood. In recent years, attention has been paid to the phenomenon of foetal programming and its relationship to arterial hypertension in adult life. It has been shown that low birth weight predisposes to the development of arterial hypertension. The relationship between the number of nephrons and blood pressure and the risk of hypertension also has been found. Blood pressure and the number of nephrons depend on both genetic and environmental factors affecting pregnant females. The aim of this review is to summarize the current knowledge concerning the role of foetal programming in the pathogenesis of arterial hypertension in adults.
Autosomal dominant hyper-IgE syndrome (AD-HIES) is caused by dominant-negative mutations in STAT3; however, the molecular basis for mutant STAT3 allele dysfunction is unclear and treatment remains supportive. We hypothesized that AD-HIES mutations decrease STAT3 protein stability and that mutant STAT3 activity can be improved by agents that increase chaperone protein activity. We used computer modeling to characterize the effect of STAT3 mutations on protein stability. We measured STAT3 protein half-life (t1/2) and determined levels of STAT3 phosphorylated on tyrosine (Y) 705 (pY-STAT3) and mRNA levels of STAT3 gene targets in Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B (EBV) cells, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and mouse splenocytes incubated without or with chaperone protein modulators - HSF1A, a small-molecule TRiC modulator, or geranylgeranylacetone (GGA), a drug that upregulates heat shock protein (HSP) 70 and HSP90. Computer modeling predicted that 81% of AD-HIES mutations are destabilizing. STAT3 protein t1/2 in EBV cells from AD-HIES patients with destabilizing STAT3 mutations was markedly reduced. Treatment of EBV cells containing destabilizing STAT3 mutations with either HSF1A or GGA normalized STAT3 t1/2, increased pY-STAT3 levels, and increased mRNA levels of STAT3 target genes up to 79% of control. In addition, treatment of human PBMCs or mouse splenocytes containing destabilizing STAT3 mutations with either HSF1A or GGA increased levels of cytokine-activated pY-STAT3 within human CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and numbers of IL-17-producing CD4+ mouse splenocytes, respectively. Thus, most AD-HIES STAT3 mutations are destabilizing; agents that modulate chaperone protein function improve STAT3 stability and activity in T cells and may provide a specific treatment.
Prostate cancer (PCa) cells display abnormal expression of cytoskeletal proteins resulting in an augmented capacity to resist chemotherapy and colonize distant organs. We have previously shown that heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) is implicated in cell morphology regulation in PCa. Here, through a multi 'omics' approach we define the HO-1 interactome in PCa, identifying HO-1 molecular partners associated with the integrity of the cellular cytoskeleton. The bioinformatics screening for these cytoskeletal-related partners reveal that they are highly misregulated in prostate adenocarcinoma compared with normal prostate tissue. Under HO-1 induction, PCa cells present reduced frequency in migration events, trajectory and cell velocity and, a significant higher proportion of filopodia-like protrusions favoring zippering among neighboring cells. Moreover forced expression of HO-1 was also capable of altering cell protrusions in transwell co-culture systems of PCa cells with MC3T3 cells (pre-osteoblastic cell line). Accordingly, these effects were reversed under siHO. Transcriptomics profiling evidenced significant modulation of key markers related to cell adhesion and cell-cell communication under HO-1 induction. The integration from our omics-based research provides a four molecular pathway foundation (ANXA2/HMGA1/POU3F1; NFRSF13/GSN; TMOD3/RAI14/VWF; and PLAT/PLAU) behind HO-1 regulation of tumor cytoskeletal cell compartments. The complementary proteomics and transcriptomics approaches presented here promise to move us closer to unravel the molecular framework underpinning HO-1 involvement in the modulation of cytoskeleton pathways, pushing toward a less aggressive phenotype in PCa.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Self-assembly of multiferroic oxide composites by chemical and biochemical methodology is discussed. The approach involves covalently attaching organic functional groups or oligomeric DNA/RNA to the nanoparticles (NPs). The organic functional groups are only reactive toward functional groups located on different NPs. Using oligomeric DNA/RNA, one could program NPs to only interact with particles possessing complementary DNA/RNA. We have applied both concepts to the assembly of nanostructures with ferrites for the ferromagnetic phase and barium titanate for the ferroelectric phase. The assembled core-shell particles and superstructures obtained in a magnetic field show evidence for strong interactions between the magnetic and ferroelectric subsystems.
Many high-resolution crystal structures have contributed to our understanding of the reaction pathway for catalysis by DNA and RNA polymerases, but the structural basis of nonenzymatic template-directed RNA replication has not been studied in comparable detail. Here we present crystallographic studies of the binding of ribonucleotide monomers to RNA primer-template complexes, with the goal of improving our understanding of the mechanism of nonenzymatic RNA copying, and of catalysis by polymerases. To explore how activated ribonucleotides recognize and bind to RNA templates, we synthesized an unreactive phosphonate-linked pyrazole analogue of guanosine 5′-phosphoro-2-methylimidazolide (2-MeImpG), a highly activated nucleotide that has been used extensively to study nonenzymatic primer extension. We cocrystallized this analogue with structurally rigidified RNA primer-template complexes carrying single or multiple monomer binding sites, and obtained high-resolution X-ray structures of these complexes. In addition to Watson-Crick base pairing, we repeatedly observed noncanonical guanine:cytidine base pairs in our crystal structures. In most structures, the phosphate and leaving group moieties of the monomers were highly disordered, while in others the distance from O3′ of the primer to the phosphorus of the incoming monomer was too great to allow for reaction. We suggest that these effects significantly influence the rate and fidelity of nonenzymatic RNA replication, and that even primitive ribozyme polymerases could enhance RNA replication by enforcing Watson-Crick base pairing between monomers and primer-template complexes, and by bringing the reactive functional groups into closer proximity.
The CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing system has taken the biomedical science field by storm, initiating rumors about future Nobel Prizes and heating up a fierce patent war, but also making significant scientific impact. The Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR), together with CRISPR-associated proteins (Cas) are a part of the prokaryotic adaptive immune system and have successfully been repurposed for genome editing in mammalian cells. The CRISPR-Cas9 system has been used to correct genetic mutations and for replacing entire genes, opening up a world of possibilities for the treatment of genetic diseases. In addition, recently some new CRISPR-Cas systems have been discovered with interesting mechanistic variations. Despite these promising developments, many challenges have to be overcome before the system can be applied therapeutically in human patients and enabling delivery technology is one of the key challenges. Furthermore, the relatively high off-target effect of the system in its current form prevents it from being safely applied directly in the human body. In this review, the transformation of the CRISPR-Cas gene editing systems into a therapeutic modality will be discussed and the currently most realistic in vivo applications will be highlighted.
We globally investigated the molecular mechanisms by which snoRNA host gene 6 (SNHG6) promotes hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression using human tissues and cell lines. We found that SNHG6 is overexpressed in HCC tissues and in hepatoma cell lines and is closely associated with histologic grade, hepatitis B virus DNA, Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer stage and portal vein tumor thrombus in patients with HCC. Knockdown of SNHG6 induced apoptosis and repressed cell cycle progression in hepatoma cell lines, whereas transgenic expression of SNHG6 in the immortalized human hepatic cell line L02 had opposite effects. Xenograft tumors grown from SNHG6-knockdown cells had smaller mean volumes than did tumors grown from control cells. SNHG6 may act as a competing endogenous RNA, effectively becoming a sink for miR-101-3p and thereby modulating the derepression of zinc finger E-box binding homeobox 1, imposing an additional level of post-transcriptional regulation. Functionally, SNHG6 promotes tumor growth and metastasis by inducing epithelial to mesenchymal transition. Further investigations showed that SNHG6 could affect HCC tumorigenesis by binding to up-frameshift protein 1 and regulating Smad7 expression.
For systemic delivery of small interfering RNA (siRNA) to solid tumors, we developed an actively-targeted unimer polyion complex-assembled gold nanoparticle (uPIC-AuNP) by a two-step assembling process. First is the monodispersed uPIC formation from the single molecules of therapeutic siRNA and the block catiomer, cyclic RGD (cRGD) peptide-installed poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(L-lysine) modified with lipoic acid (LA) at the ω-end (cRGD-PEG-PLL-LA). Second is the surface decoration of a 20 nm-sized AuNP with uPICs. The cRGD-installed uPIC-AuNPs (cRGD-uPIC-AuNP) provided the targetability for selective binding to the cancer and cancer-related endothelial cellular surface, while regulating their size < 50 nm with a quite narrow distribution. The targeting efficacy of the cRGD-uPIC-AuNP was confirmed by in vitro cellular uptake in cultured cervical cancer (HeLa) cells and in vivo tumor accumulation in a subcutaneous HeLa model after systemic administration, compared with a non-targeted control uPIC-AuNP. Due to the targetability of the ligand, the cRGD-uPIC-AuNP achieved the significantly enhanced gene silencing ability in the subcutaneous HeLa tumor. Ultimately, the systemic delivery of siRNA targeted for papilloma virus-derived E6 oncogene by cRGD-uPIC-AuNP significantly inhibited the growth of subcutaneous HeLa tumor. This research demonstrates that the bottom-up construction of nanocarriers using monodispersed building blocks can be employed as delivery platforms for RNA interference-based cancer therapy.
This study aimed to investigate the role of EphA3 in promoting malignant transformation of colorectal epithelial cells, and explore underlying molecular mechanisms. Colorectal cancer tissue specimens from 68 patients were analyzed for EphA3 expression. EphA3 expression levels were manipulated in rat colon epithelial cell lines. We found that EphA3 expression level in tumor tissues was associated with patient age (P = 0.015), tumor differentiation (P = 0.001), and lymph node metastasis (P = 0.039). Overexpression of EphA3 and its constitutively active mutants promoted colony formation, migration and invasion, and tumorigenicity of colon epithelial cells in nude mice. The cDNA and lncRNA microarray profiling data revealed that differentially expressed genes and lncRNAs in EphA3 or mutant-transfected cells were associated with cell proliferation, invasion and angiogenesis. Our findings reveal the mechanisms underlying the oncogenic activities of EphA3 in colorectal cells, which could provide novel targets for the prevention, early diagnosis, and treatment of colorectal cancer.
The advent of site-specific nucleases, particularly CRISPR/Cas9, provides researchers with the unprecedented ability to manipulate genomic sequences. These nucleases are used to create model cell lines, engineer metabolic pathways, produce transgenic animals and plants, perform genome-wide functional screen and, most importantly, treat human diseases that are difficult to tackle by traditional medications. Considerable efforts have been devoted to improving the efficiency and specificity of nucleases for clinical applications. However, safe and efficient delivery methods remain the major obstacle for therapeutic gene editing. In this review, we summarize the recent progress on nuclease delivery methods, highlight their impact on the outcomes of gene editing and discuss the potential of different delivery approaches for therapeutic gene editing.
Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. AIM To assess the burden of norovirus (NoV) and to determine the diversity of circulating strains among hospitalized children in Lebanon. METHODS Stool samples were collected from children presenting with acute gastroenteritis to six major hospitals in Lebanon. A total of 739 eligible stool samples, testing negative for diarrhea caused by rotavirus as a possible viral pathogen, were collected between January 2011 and June 2013. A standardized questionnaire including demographic, epidemiological and clinical observations was used at the time of hospitalization of children presenting with diarrhea. Viral RNA was extracted from stool samples followed by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and nucleotide sequencing of a fragment of the viral protein 1 capsid gene. Multiple sequence alignments were carried out and phylogenetic trees were constructed using the MEGA 6 software. RESULTS Overall, 11.2% of stool samples collected from children aged < 5 years tested positive for NoV genogroups I (GI) and II (GII). GII accounted for 10.6% of the gastroenteritis cases with only five samples being positive for GI (0.7%). The majority of hospitalized children showed symptoms of diarrhea, dehydration, vomiting and fever. Upon sequencing of positive samples and based on their clustering in the phylogenetic tree, 4/5 of GI gastroenteritis cases were designated G I.3 and one case as GI.4. GII.4 was predominantly detected in stool of our study participants (68%). We report a JB-15/KOR/2008 GII.4 Apeldoorn 2008-like variant strain circulating in 2011; this strain was replaced between 2012 and 2013 by a variant sharing homology with the Sydney/NSW0514/2012/AUS GII.4 Sydney 2012 and Sydney 2012/FRA GII.4 strains. We also report the co-circulation of non-GII.4 genotypes among hospitalized children. Our data show that NoV gastroenteritis can occur throughout the year with the highest number of cases detected during the hot months. CONCLUSION The majority of NoV-associated viral gastroenteritis cases among our participants are attributable to GII.4, which is compatible with results reported worldwide.
Background: Amphipods (Crustacea) of Lake Baikal are a very numerous and diverse group of invertebrates generally believed to have originated by adaptive radiation. The evolutionary history and phylogenetic relationships in Baikalian amphipods still remain poorly understood. Sequencing of mitochondrial genomes is a relatively feasible way for obtaining a set of gene sequences suitable for robust phylogenetic inferences. The architecture of mitochondrial genomes also may provide additional information on the mechanisms of evolution of amphipods in Lake Baikal. Results: Three complete and four nearly complete mitochondrial genomes of Baikalian amphipods were obtained by high-throughput sequencing using the Illumina platform. A phylogenetic inference based on the nucleotide sequences of all mitochondrial protein coding genes revealed the Baikalian species to be a monophyletic group relative to the nearest non-Baikalian species with a completely sequenced mitochondrial genome - Gammarus duebeni. The phylogeny of Baikalian amphipods also suggests that the shallow-water species Eulimnogammarus has likely evolved from a deep-water ancestor, however many other species have to be added to the analysis to test this hypothesis. The gene order in all mitochondrial genomes of studied Baikalian amphipods differs from the pancrustacean ground pattern. Mitochondrial genomes of four species possess 23 tRNA genes, and in three genomes the extra tRNA gene copies have likely undergone remolding. Widely varying lengths of putative control regions and other intergenic spacers are typical for the mitochondrial genomes of Baikalian amphipods. Conclusions: The mitochondrial genomes of Baikalian amphipods display varying organization suggesting an intense rearrangement process during their evolution. Comparison of complete mitochondrial genomes is a potent approach for studying the amphipod evolution in Lake Baikal.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Upon RNA polymerase (RNAP) binding to a promoter, the σ factor initiates DNA strand separation and captures the melted nontemplate DNA, whereas the core enzyme establishes interactions with the duplex DNA in front of the active site that stabilize initiation complexes and persist throughout elongation. Among many core RNAP elements that participate in these interactions, the β;' clamp domain plays the most prominent role. In this work, we investigate the role of the β gate loop, a conserved and essential structural element that lies across the DNA channel from the clamp, in transcription regulation. The gate loop was proposed to control DNA loading during initiation and to interact with NusG-like proteins to lock RNAP in a closed, processive state during elongation. We show that the removal of the gate loop has large effects on promoter complexes, trapping an unstable intermediate in which the RNAP contacts with the nontemplate strand discriminator region and the downstream duplex DNA are not yet fully established. We find that although RNAP lacking the gate loop displays moderate defects in pausing, transcript cleavage, and termination, it is fully responsive to the transcription elongation factor NusG. Together with the structural data, our results support a model in which the gate loop, acting in concert with initiation or elongation factors, guides the nontemplate DNA in transcription complexes, thereby modulating their regulatory properties.
The CRISPR/Cas9 nuclease is commonly used to make gene knockouts. The blunt DNA ends generated by cleavage can be efficiently ligated by the classical nonhomologous end-joining repair pathway (c-NHEJ), regenerating the target site. This repair creates a cycle of cleavage, ligation, and target site regeneration that persists until sufficient modification of the DNA break by alternative NHEJ prevents further Cas9 cutting, generating a heterogeneous population of insertions and deletions typical of gene knockouts. Here, we develop a strategy to escape this cycle and bias events toward defined length deletions by creating an RNA-guided dual active site nuclease that generates two noncompatible DNA breaks at a target site, effectively deleting the majority of the target site such that it cannot be regenerated. The TevCas9 nuclease, a fusion of the I-TevI nuclease domain to Cas9, functions robustly in HEK293 cells and generates 33- to 36-bp deletions at frequencies up to 40%. Deep sequencing revealed minimal processing of TevCas9 products, consistent with protection of the DNA ends from exonucleolytic degradation and repair by the c-NHEJ pathway. Directed evolution experiments identified I-TevI variants with broadened targeting range, making TevCas9 an easy-to-use reagent. Our results highlight how the sequence-tolerant cleavage properties of the I-TevI homing endonuclease can be harnessed to enhance Cas9 applications, circumventing the cleavage and ligation cycle and biasing genome-editing events toward defined length deletions.
Cytosine methylation is a DNA modification with important regulatory functions in eukaryotes. In flowering plants, sexual reproduction is accompanied by extensive DNA demethylation, which is required for proper gene expression in the endosperm, a nutritive extraembryonic seed tissue. Endosperm arises from a fusion of a sperm cell carried in the pollen and a female central cell. Endosperm DNA demethylation is observed specifically on the chromosomes inherited from the central cell in Arabidopsis thaliana, rice, and maize, and requires the DEMETER DNA demethylase in Arabidopsis. DEMETER is expressed in the central cell before fertilization, suggesting that endosperm demethylation patterns are inherited from the central cell. Down-regulation of the MET1 DNA methyltransferase has also been proposed to contribute to central cell demethylation. However, with the exception of three maize genes, central cell DNA methylation has not been directly measured, leaving the origin and mechanism of endosperm demethylation uncertain. Here, we report genome-wide analysis of DNA methylation in the central cells of Arabidopsis and rice-species that diverged 150 million years ago-as well as in rice egg cells. We find that DNA demethylation in both species is initiated in central cells, which requires DEMETER in Arabidopsis. However, we do not observe a global reduction of CG methylation that would be indicative of lowered MET1 activity; on the contrary, CG methylation efficiency is elevated in female gametes compared with nonsexual tissues. Our results demonstrate that locus-specific, active DNA demethylation in the central cell is the origin ofmaternal chromosome hypomethylation in the endosperm.
” Genomics pertains to all components of an organism's genes, whereas genetics involves analysis of a specific gene or genes in the context of heredity. The paper provides introductory comments, describes the basis of human genetic diversity, and addresses the phenotypic consequences of genetic variants. Rare variants with large effect sizes are responsible for single-gene disorders, whereas complex polygenic diseases are typically due to multiple genetic variants, each exerting a modest effect size. To illustrate the clinical implications of genetic variants with large effect sizes, 3 common forms of hereditary cardiomyopathies are discussed as prototypic examples of single-gene disorders, including their genetics, clinical manifestations, pathogenesis, and treatment. The genetic basis of complex traits is discussed in a separate paper.
Nutritional conditions during early development influence the plastic expression of adult phenotypes. Among several body modules of animals, the development of sexually selected exaggerated traits exhibits striking nutrition sensitivity, resulting in positive allometry and hypervariability distinct from other traits. Using de novo RNA sequencing and comprehensive RNA interference (RNAi) for epigenetic modifying factors, we found that histone deacetylases (HDACs) and polycomb group (PcG) proteins preferentially influence the size of mandibles (exaggerated male weapon) and demonstrate nutrition-dependent hypervariability in the broad-horned flour beetle, Gnatocerus cornutus. RNAi-mediated HDAC1 knockdown (KD) in G. cornutus larvae caused specific curtailment of mandibles in adults, whereas HDAC3 KD led to hypertrophy. Notably, these KDs conferred opposite effects on wing size, but little effect on the size of the core body and genital modules. PcG RNAi also reduced adult mandible size. These results suggest that the plastic development of exaggerated traits is controlled in a module-specific manner by HDACs.
Rett syndrome is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in the methyl-CpG binding protein gene (MECP2). MeCP2 is a methyl-cytosine binding protein that is proposed to function as a transcriptional repressor. However,multiple gene expression studies comparingwild-type andMeCP2-deficient neurons have failed to identify gene expression changes consistent with loss of a classical transcriptional repressor. Recent work suggests that one function of MeCP2 in neurons is to temper the expression of the longest genes in the genome by binding to methylated CA dinucleotides (mCA) within transcribed regions of these genes. Here we explore the mechanism ofmCA and MeCP2 in fine tuning the expression of long genes. We find that mCA is not only highly enriched within the body of genes normally repressed by MeCP2, but also enriched within extendedmegabase-scale regions surrounding MeCP2-repressed genes. Whereas enrichment of mCA exists in a broad region around these genes, mCA together with mCG within gene bodies appears to be the primary driver of gene repression by MeCP2. Disruption of methylation at CA sites within the brain results in depletion of MeCP2 across genes that normally contain a high density of genebody mCA. We further find that the degree of gene repression by MeCP2 is proportional to the total number of methylated cytosine MeCP2 binding sites across the body of a gene. These findings suggest a model in which MeCP2 tunes gene expression in neurons by binding within the transcribed regions of genes to impede the elongation of RNA polymerase.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a substantial burden to patients, families, and society, but many patients cannot be treated adequately. Rodent experiments suggest that the neuropeptide galanin (GAL) and its three G protein-coupled receptors, GAL1-3, are involved in mood regulation. To explore the translational potential of these results, we assessed the transcript levels (by quantitative PCR), DNA methylation status (by bisulfite pyrosequencing), and GAL peptide by RIA of the GAL system in postmortem brains from depressed persons who had committed suicide and controls. Transcripts for all four members were detected and showed marked regional variations, GAL and galanin receptor 1 (GALR1) being most abundant. Striking increases in GAL and GALR3mRNA levels, especially in the noradrenergic locus coeruleus and the dorsal raphe nucleus, in parallel with decreased DNA methylation, were found in both male and female suicide subjects as compared with controls. In contrast, GAL and GALR3 transcript levels were decreased, GALR1 was increased, and DNA methylation was increased in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of male suicide subjects, however, there were no changes in the anterior cingulate cortex. Thus, GAL and its receptor GALR3 are differentiallymethylated and expressed in brains of MDD subjects in a region- and sex-specific manner. Such an epigenetic modification in GALR3, a hyperpolarizing receptor, might contribute to the dysregulation of noradrenergic and serotonergic neurons implicated in the pathogenesis of MDD. Thus, one may speculate that aGAL3 antagonist could have antidepressant properties by disinhibiting the firing of these neurons, resulting in increased release of noradrenaline and serotonin in forebrain areas involved in mood regulation.
Scavenger receptors are an important class of pattern recognition receptors that play several important roles in host defense against pathogens. The class C scavenger receptors (SRCs) have only been identified in a few invertebrates, and their role in the immune response against viruses is seldom studied. In this study, we firstly identified an SRC from kuruma shrimp, Marsupenaeus japonicus, designated MjSRC, which was significantly upregulated after white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) challenge at the mRNA and protein levels in hemocytes. The quantity of WSSV increased in shrimp after knockdown of MjSRC, compared with the controls. Furthermore, overexpression of MjSRC led to enhanced WSSV elimination via phagocytosis by hemocytes. Pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated the interaction between MjSRC and the WSSV envelope protein. Electron microscopy observation indicated that the colloidal gold-labeled extracellular domain of MjSRC was located on the outer surface of WSSV. MjSRC formed a trimer and was internalized into the cytoplasm after WSSV challenge, and the internalization was strongly inhibited after knockdown of Mjβ-arrestin2. Further studies found that Mjβ-arrestin2 interacted with the intracellular domain of MjSRC and induced the internalization of WSSV in a clathrin-dependent manner. WSSV were co-localized with lysosomes in hemocytes and the WSSV quantity in shrimp increased after injection of lysosome inhibitor, chloroquine. Collectively, this study demonstrated that MjSRC recognized WSSV via its extracellular domain and invoked hemocyte phagocytosis to restrict WSSV systemic infection. This is the first study to report an SRC as a pattern recognition receptor promoting phagocytosis of a virus.
High-throughput chromosome conformation capture (Hi-C) analyses revealed that the 3D structure of the Neurospora crassa genome is dominated by intra- and interchromosomal links between regions of heterochromatin, especially constitutive heterochromatin. Elimination of trimethylation of lysine 9 on histone H3 (H3K9me3) or its binding partner Heterochromatin Protein 1 (HP1)-both prominent features of constitutive heterochromatin-have little effect on the Hi-C pattern. It remained possible that di- or trimethylation of lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me2/3), which becomes localized in regions of constitutive heterochromatin when H3K9me3 or HP1 are lost, plays a critical role in the 3D structure of the genome. We found that H3K27me2/3, catalyzed by the Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) member SET-7 (SET domain protein-7), does indeed play a prominent role in the Hi-C pattern of WT, but that its presence in regions normally occupied by H3K9me3 is not responsible for maintenance of the genome architecture when H3K9me3 is lost. The Hi-C pattern of a mutant defective in the PRC2 member N. crassa p55 (NPF), which is predominantly required for subtelomeric H3K27me2/3, was equivalent to that of the set-7 deletion strain, suggesting that subtelomeric facultative heterochromatin is paramount for normal chromosome conformation. Both PRC2 mutants showed decreased heterochromatin-heterochromatin contacts and increased euchromatin-heterochromatin contacts. Cytological observations suggested elimination of H3K27me2/3 leads to partial displacement of telomere clusters from the nuclear periphery. Transcriptional profiling of Δdim-5, Δset-7, Δset-7; Δdim-5, and Δnpf strains detailed anticipated changes in gene expression but did not support the idea that global changes in genome architecture, per se, led to altered transcription.
Mutations within the FUS gene (Fused in Sarcoma) are known to cause Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), a neurodegenerative disease affecting upper and lower motoneurons. The FUS gene codes for a multifunctional RNA/DNA-binding protein that is primarily localized in the nucleus and is involved in cellular processes such as splicing, translation, mRNA transport and DNA damage response. In this study, we analyzed pathophysiological alterations associated with ALS related FUS mutations (mFUS) in human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) and hiPSC derived motoneurons. To that end, we compared cells carrying a mild or severe mFUS in physiological-and/or stress conditions as well as after induced DNA damage. Following hyperosmolar stress or irradiation, mFUS hiPS cells recruited significantly more cytoplasmatic FUS into stress granules accompanied by impaired DNA-damage repair. In motoneurons wild-type FUS was localized in the nucleus but also deposited as small punctae within neurites. In motoneurons expressing mFUS the protein was additionally detected in the cytoplasm and a significantly increased number of large, densely packed FUS positive stress granules were seen along neurites. The amount of FUS mislocalization correlated positively with both the onset of the human disease (the earlier the onset the higher the FUS mislocalization) and the maturation status of the motoneurons. Moreover, even in non-stressed post-mitotic mFUS motoneurons clear signs of DNA-damage could be detected. In summary, we found that the susceptibility to cell stress was higher in mFUS hiPSCs and hiPSC derived motoneurons than in controls and the degree of FUS mislocalization correlated well with the clinical severity of the underlying ALS related mFUS. The accumulation of DNA damage and the cellular response to DNA damage stressors was more pronounced in post-mitotic mFUS motoneurons than in dividing hiPSCs suggesting that mFUS motoneurons accumulate foci of DNA damage, which in turn might be directly linked to neurodegeneration.
Background: We investigated the relationship of the polymorphisms of SET and MYND domain-containing protein 3 (SMYD3) with risk and prognosis of ovarian cancer. Material/Methods: The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification method was applied to detect the polymorphisms of variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) in the SMYD3 gene promoter region for 156 patients with ovarian cancer (case group) and 174 healthy people (control group). Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blot were applied to detect SMYD3 mRNA and protein expressions. Results: The frequencies of VNTR genotype 3/3 and allele genotype 3 in the case group were significantly higher than those in the control group, while the frequency of genotype 2/2 in the control group was significantly higher than that in case group (all P<0.05). The proportion of poorly differentiated patients carrying VNTR genotype 3/3 was significantly higher than the proportion of poorly differentiated patients carrying VNTR genotype 2/2+2/3, while the proportion of patients carrying genotype 3/3 with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage III–IV disease was significantly higher than the proportion of patients carrying genotype 2/2 +2/3 with FIGO stage III–IV disease (all P<0.05). SMYD3 mRNA and protein expressions were higher in the patients carrying genotype 3/3 than they were in the patients with the 2/2+2/3 genotype (all P<0.05). The 5-year survival rate for patients carrying VNTR genotype 3/3 was significantly lower than that of patients carrying genotype 2/2+2/3, and Cox regression analysis showed that VNTR genotype 3/3 was an independent risk factor for ovarian cancer prognosis (all P<0.05). Conclusions: VNTR genotype 3/3 of the SMYD3 gene was associated with the risk of ovarian cancer. The polymorphism of VNTR genotype could be recognized as an indicator for the poor prognosis of patients with ovarian cancer.
Objective: To explore the expression of xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group G (XPG) gene in healthy Han population of different ages and to analysis the relationship between the mRNA and protein expression levels of XPG and age, which may provide a new molecular-biological indicator for forensic age determination. Methods: Total 150 samples of peripheral blood were collected from healthy Han population of different ages. Total RNA of peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) were extracted by TRIzol method, and the relative expression of XPG mRNA in PBMC was detected by quantitative real-time PCR, and the protein expression levels of XPG in plasma were detected by ELISA. Results: The mRNA and protein expression levels of XPG in ≤18 years old group were significantly different from 19-45 years old group and 3≥46 years old group (P<0.05), while there was no significant difference between 19-45 years old group and 3≥46 years old group (P>0.05). No significant sex differences were observed in mRNA and protein expression levels of XPG (P>0.05). Conclusion: The relative expression level of XPG mRNA in PBMC declines with the increase of age in younger age, while the protein expression level in plasma increases with age, and XPG gene can be used as one of new markers for forensic age estimation.
This study aims to investigate the involved mechanism of the therapeutic detoxification of CA against acetaminophen (APAP)-induced hepatotoxicity. CA (10, 30 mg/kg) was orally given to mice at 1 h after mice were pre-administrated with APAP (300 mg/kg). The therapeutic detoxification of CA against APAP-induced hepatotoxicity was observed by detecting serum aminotransferases, liver malondialdehyde (MDA) amount and liver histological evaluation in vivo. CA reduced APAP-induced increase in the mRNA expression of early growth response 1 (Egr1) in hepatocytes, and inhibited APAP-induced Egr1 transcriptional activation in vitro and in vivo. CA reduced the increased expression of growth arrest and DNA-damage-inducible protein (Gadd45)α induced by APAP in hepatocytes. Moreover, Egr1 siRNA reduced Gadd45α expression and reversed APAP-induced cytotoxicity in hepatocytes. Further results showed that CA blocked APAP-induced activation of extracellular-regulated protein kinase (ERK1/2) signaling cascade in vivo and in vitro. In addition, the application of ERK1/2 inhibitors (PD98059 and U0126) abrogated the nuclear translocation of Egr1 induced by APAP in hepatocytes. In conclusion, this study demonstrated the therapeutic detoxification of CA against APAP-induced liver injury, and the inhibition of CA on ERK1/2-mediated Egr1 transcriptional activation was involved in this process.
We previously reported the hepatoprotective effect of Glycine propionyl-l-carnitine (GPLC) against the fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) induced by D-Galactosamine (D-GalN). In this study we evaluated the protective effect of GPLC against D-GalN induced chronic liver damage. Experimental approach Animals received D-GalN twice a week for 12 weeks at a dose of 250 mg/kg body weight (BW). GPLC was given daily for 12 weeks as co-treatment along with D-GalN at a dose of 35 mg/kg BW. Key results D-GalN injection resulted in a considerable decrease in body weight, hepatocellular disintegration, necrosis and lipid peroxidation as evident from altered levels of SOD, CAT and MDA while GPLC significantly restored the reduced body weight and ameliorated hepatocellular damage and lipid peroxidation. D-GalN administration resulted in DNA damage as evident from TUNEL positive cells in disease control rats while; GPLC significantly alleviated the genotoxic effects of D-GalN. Further histopathological analysis revealed significant tissue and cellular damage, and increased collagen content in D-GalN challenged rats. GPLC however ameliorated the damage as evident from normal cellular and morphological architecture in GPLC co-treated rats. Hydroxyproline and nitrotyrosine (NTY) levels marked a significant decrease in GPLC co-treated rats relative to disease control. GPLC significantly blocked D-GalN induced pro-inflammatory cytokine (TNF-α, IL-6) production and at the same time inhibited the expression of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), collagen-I (COL-I) and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) significantly. Conclusion and implications Our results demonstrate significant protective activity of GPLC in chronic liver damage and other complications related to it. This study is a novel study to demonstrate the hepatoprotective effect of GPLC in chronic liver damage.
Kangfuxin (KFX) has been used to treat gastric ulcer in patients. However, the underlying mechanisms of KFX action remain unclear. The current study was undertaken to evaluate the gastroprotective effects of KFX and to determine its potential mechanisms. Ethanol-induced gastric ulcer mouse model was employed. Ethanol pretreated mice were treated with low (0.02 g/kg) and high (0.05 g/kg) dose of KFX for 14 days. Cimetidine (0.8 g/kg) was used as positive control. Histological evaluation of the gastric mucosa revealed that mice treated with ethanol exhibited severe gastric mucosal damage. Ethanol treatment increased plasma and gastric MDA level, decreased plasma and gastric SOD activity, and reduced gastric HO-1 and GCL-c mRNA levels. ER stress markers (CHOP, GRP78, and caspase 12) were up-regulated upon ethanol administration. Moreover, increased cell apoptosis and pro-apoptotic protein Bax and caspase 3 were observed in ethanol treated mice, while the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl 2 was inhibited. Finally, KFX treatment reversed ethanol-induced phenotypes and ameliorated gastric ulcer. Our results demonstrated that the gastroprotective effects of KFX against ethanol-induced gastric ulcer could be attributed to its anti-oxidative stress, anti-ER stress and anti-apoptotic effects.
Background: Although pituitary adenoma is a malignant tumor, it can present as invasive growth in some cases. MicroRNA (miR)-26a has been found to be abnormally highly expressed in pituitary adenoma, indicating possible involvement in pathogenesis. As a known target gene of miR-26a, PLAG1 has abnormally low expression in pituitary adenoma. The correlation between miR-26a or PLAG1 expressional abnormality and occurrence of pituitary adenoma is still unknown, as is its association with invasiveness of pituitary adenoma. Material/Methods: Pituitary adenoma tissues, including both invasive and non-invasive subtypes, were collected from our Neurosurgery Department, in parallel with normal pituitary tissues from postmortem autopsy. qRT-PCR was used to detect mRNA expression of miR-26a and PLAG1, while Western blotting was used to test PLAG1 protein expression. The correlation between miR-26a and PLAG1, and with pathological features, were analyzed. ROC analysis revealed the utility of miR-26a and PLAG1 in differential diagnosis of invasive/non-invasive pituitary tumors and in analyzing their effects on patient prognosis. Results: MiR-26a was remarkably upregulated in pituitary tumors, while PLAG1 was downregulated, especially in invasive pituitary tumors. miR-26a and PLAG1 had higher diagnostic values for differentiating between invasive and non-invasive pituitary tumors (AUC=0.889 and 0.818, respectively). Those patients with miR-26 overexpression and PLAG1 downregulation had unfavorable prognosis. miR-26 and PLAG1 are independent factors affecting patient diagnosis. Conclusions: MiR-26a can facilitate occurrence of pituitary tumor and invasiveness, probably via inhibiting PLAG1 expression.
Destabilization of a non-enveloped virus generates a membrane transport-competent viral particle. Here we probe polyomavirus SV40 endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-to-cytosol membrane transport, a decisive infection step where destabilization initiates this non-enveloped virus for membrane penetration. We find that a member of the ER membrane protein complex (EMC) called EMC1 promotes SV40 ER membrane transport and infection. Surprisingly, EMC1 does so by using its predicted transmembrane residue D961 to bind to and stabilize the membrane-embedded partially destabilized SV40, thereby preventing premature viral disassembly. EMC1-dependent stabilization enables SV40 to engage a cytosolic extraction complex that ejects the virus into the cytosol. Thus EMC1 acts as a molecular chaperone, bracing the destabilized SV40 in a transportcompetent state. Our findings reveal the novel principle that coordinated destabilizationstabilization drives membrane transport of a non-enveloped virus.
Aim of the study To evaluate antibacterial potential of essential oils from J. rigida leaves against Klebsiella pneumoniae and to examine its possible related mechanisms. The study was undertaken in order to scientifically validate the traditional use of J. rigida. Materials and methods The essential oil was extracted from the leaves of J. rigida by supercritical CO2 fluid extraction technology. Chemical composition of essential oils was analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC–MS). The antibacterial activity was evaluated against 10 bacteria by the paper disc diffusion method. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimal bactericidal concentration (MBC) values of the essential oil were estimated by agar dilution method. The antibacterial mechanism was evaluated by growth curve, the integrity of cell membrane, the SDS-PAGE of protein patterns and scanning electron microscope (SEM). Results 61 components were identified from the essential oil. Caryophyllene (13.11%) and α-Caryophyllene (11.72%) were found to be the major components. The antibacterial activities of the essential oil were screened and compared against 10 bacteria. The essential oil showed good antibacterial activity against K. pneumoniae, with the biggest diameters of inhibition zones (DIZ) (16.00±0.25 mm) and the lowest MIC and MBC values of 3.125 mg/mL. The increase in proteins, 260 nm absorbing materials of bacterial cells suspension indicated that the cytoplasmic membranes were broken by the essential oil. The SDS-PAGE of bacterial proteins demonstrated that the essential oil could damage bacterial cells through the destruction of cellular proteins. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) showed that the essential oil damaged the morphology of cell wall and membrane. Conclusions The essential oil of J. rigida has potential antibacterial activities against K. pneumoniae. The antibacterial mechanism is the essential oil causing the irreversible damage to the cell wall and membrane, leading to the leakage of proteins and 260 nm absorbing materials (DNA and RNA). Further phytochemical and pharmacological studies are required for proper scientific validation of the folk use of this plant species.
Many fundamental biological processes depend on intricate networks of interactions between proteins and nucleic acids and a quantitative description of these interactions is important for understanding cellular mechanisms governing DNA replication, transcription, or translation. Here we present a versatile method for rapid and quantitative assessment of protein/nucleic acid (NA) interactions. This method is based on protein induced fluorescence enhancement (PIFE), a phenomenon whereby protein binding increases the fluorescence of Cy3-like dyes. PIFE has mainly been used in single molecule studies to detect protein association with DNA or RNA. Here we applied PIFE for steady state quantification of protein/NA interactions by using microwell plate fluorescence readers (mwPIFE). We demonstrate the general applicability of mwPIFE for examining various aspects of protein/DNA interactions with examples from the restriction enzyme BamHI, and the DNA repair complexes Ku and XPF/ERCC1. These include determination of sequence and structure binding specificities, dissociation constants, detection of weak interactions, and the ability of a protein to translocate along DNA. mwPIFE represents an easy and high throughput method that does not require protein labeling and can be applied to a wide range of applications involving protein/NA interactions.
Adult women are twice as likely as men to suffer from affective and anxiety disorders, although the mechanisms underlying heightened female stress susceptibility are incompletely understood. Recent findings in mouse Nucleus Accumbens (NAc) suggest a role for DNA methylation-driven sex differences in genome-wide transcriptional profiles. However, the role of another epigenetic process—microRNA (miR) regulation—has yet to be explored. We exposed male and female mice to Subchronic Variable Stress (SCVS), a stress paradigm that produces depression-like behavior in female, but not male, mice, and performed next generation mRNA and miR sequencing on NAc tissue. We applied a combination of differential expression, miR-mRNA network and functional enrichment analyses to characterize the transcriptional and post-transcriptional landscape of sex differences in NAc stress response. We find that male and female mice exhibit largely non-overlapping miR and mRNA profiles following SCVS. The two sexes also show enrichment of different molecular pathways and functions. Collectively, our results suggest that males and females mount fundamentally different transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses to SCVS and engage sex-specific molecular processes following stress. These findings have implications for the pathophysiology and treatment of stress-related disorders in women.
Background: Pooled library screen analysis using shRNAs or CRISPR-Cas9 hold great promise to genome-wide functional studies. While pooled library screens are effective tools, erroneous barcodes can potentially be generated during the production of many barcodes. However, no current tools can distinguish erroneous barcodes from PCR or sequencing errors in a data preprocessing step. Results: We developed the Barcas program, a specialized program for the mapping and analysis of multiplexed barcode sequencing (barcode-seq) data. For fast and efficient mapping, Barcas uses a trie data structure based imperfect matching algorithm which generates precise mapping results containing mismatches, shifts, insertions and deletions (indel) in a flexible manner. Barcas provides three functions for quality control (QC) of a barcode library and distinguishes erroneous barcodes from PCR or sequencing errors. It also provides useful functions for data analysis and visualization. Conclusions: Barcas is an all-in-one package providing useful functions including mapping, data QC, library QC, statistical analysis and visualization in genome-wide pooled screens.
The Archaeorhizomycetes are recently discovered fungi with poorly resolved ecology. Even their abundance in soil fungal communities is currently disputed. Here we applied a PCR-independent, RNA-based metatranscriptomic approach to determine their abundance among fungi in eleven different soils across Europe. Using small subunit (SSU) ribosomal RNA transcripts as marker, we detected Archaeorhizomycetes in 17 out of 28 soil metatranscriptomes. They had average relative SSU rRNA abundance of 2.0% with a maximum of 9.4% among fungal SSU rRNAs. Network analysis revealed that they co-occur with arbuscular mycorrhizal Glomerales, which is in line with their previously suggested association with plant roots. Moreover, Archaeorhizomycetes ranked among the potential keystone taxa. This metatranscriptomic survey exemplifies the usage of non-targeted molecular approaches for the study of soil fungi. It provides PCR- and DNA-independent evidence for the low abundance of Archaeorhizomycetes in soil fungal communities, although they might be non-negligible players despite their low abundance.
E-26 transformation-specific (ETS) proteins are transcription factors directing gene expression through their conserved DNA binding domain. They are implicated as truncated forms or interchromosomal rearrangements in a variety of tumors including Ewing sarcoma, a pediatric tumor of the bone. Tumor cells express the chimeric oncoprotein EWS-FLI1 from a specific t(22;11)(q24;12) translocation. EWS-FLI1 harbors a strong transactivation domain fromEWSR1and the DNA-binding ETS domain of FLI1 in the C-terminal part of the protein. Although Ewing cells are crucially dependent on continuous expression of EWS-FLI1, its regulation of turnover has not been characterized in detail. Here, we identify the EWS-FLI1 protein as a substrate of the ubiquitin-proteasome system with a characteristic polyubiquitination pattern. Using a global protein stability approach, we determined the half-life of EWS-FLI1 to lie between 2 and 4 h, whereas full-length EWSR1 and FLI1 were more stable. By mass spectrometry, we identified two ubiquitin acceptor lysine residues of which only mutation of Lys-380 in the ETS domain of the FLI1 part abolished EWS-FLI1 ubiquitination and stabilized the protein posttranslationally. Expression of this highly stable mutant protein in Ewing cells while simultaneously depleting the endogenous wild type protein differentially modulates two subgroups of target genes to be either EWS-FLI1 protein-dependent or turnover-dependent. The majority of target genes are in an unaltered state and cannot be further activated. Our study provides novel insights into EWS-FLI1 turnover, a critical pathway in Ewing sarcoma pathogenesis, and lays new ground to develop novel therapeutic strategies in Ewing sarcoma.
The spotted knifejaw, Oplegnathus punctatus, is an important aquaculture fish species in China. To better understand the chromosomal microstructure and the karyotypic origin of this species, cytogenetic analysis was performed using Giemsa staining to identify metaphase chromosomes, C-banding to detect C-positive heterochromatin, silver staining to identify the nucleolus organizer regions (Ag-NORs), and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for physical mapping of the major (18S rDNA) and minor (5S rDNA) ribosomal genes. The species showed a karyotype of 2n = 48 for females, composed of 2 submetacentric and 46 telocentric chromosomes, with a fundamental number (FN) = 50, while the karyotype of males was 2n = 47, composed of 1 exclusive large metacentric, 2 submetacentric, and 44 telocentric chromosomes, with FN = 50. These karyotype resultssuggest that O. punctatus might have an X1X1X2X2/X1X2Y multiple sex chromosome system. C-positive heterochromatin was distributed in the centromeres of all chromosomal pairs and in the terminal portions of some chromosomes. A single pair of Ag-positive NORs was found to be localized at the terminal regions of the short arms of the subtelocentric chromosome pair, which was supported by FISH of 18S rDNA. After FISH, 5S rDNA were located on the interstitial regions of the smallest telocentric chromosome pair. This study was the first to identify the karyotype of this species and will facilitate further research on karyotype evolution in the order Perciformes.
Background: Whole exome sequencing (WES) has recently emerged as an effective approach for identifying genetic variants underlying human diseases. However, considerable time and labour is needed for careful investigation of candidate variants. Although filtration based on population frequencies and functional prediction scores could effectively remove common and neutral variants, hundreds or even thousands of rare deleterious variants still remain. In addition, current WES platforms also provide variant information in flanking noncoding regions, such as promoters, introns and splice sites. Despite of being recognized to harbour causal variants, these regions are usually ignored by current analysis pipelines. Results: We present a novel computational method, called Glints, to overcome the above limitations. Glints is capable of identifying disease-causing SNVs in both coding and flanking noncoding regions from exome sequencing data. The principle behind Glints is that disease-causing variants should manifest their effect at both variant and gene levels. Specifically, Glints integrates 14 types of functional scores, including predictions for both coding and noncoding variants, and 9 types of association scores, which help identifying disease relevant genes. We conducted a large-scale simulation studies based on 1000 Genomes Project data and demonstrated the effectiveness of our method in both coding and flanking noncoding regions. We also applied Glints in two real exome sequencing and demonstrated its effectiveness for uncovering disease-causing SNVs. Both standalone software and web server are available at our website http://bioinfo.au.tsinghua.edu.cn/jianglab/glints. Conclusions: Glints is effective for uncovering disease-causing SNVs in coding and flanking noncoding regions, which is supported by both simulation and real case studies. Glints is expected to be a useful tool for human genetics research based on exome sequencing data.
In the HIV-1 replication cycle, the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) machinery promotes viral budding and release in the late stages. In this process, the ESCRT proteins, ALIX and TSG101, are recruited through interactions with HIV-1 Gag p6. ALG-2, also known as PDCD6, interacts with both ALIX and TSG101 and bridges ESCRT-III and ESCRT-I. In this study, we show that ALG-2 affects HIV-1 production negatively at both the exogenous and endogenous levels. Through a yeast two-hybrid screen, we identified HEBP2 as the binding partner of ALG-2, and we solved the crystal structure of the ALG-2·HEBP2 complex. The function of ALG-2·HEBP2 complex in HIV-1 replication was further explored. ALG-2 inhibits HIV-1 production by affecting Gag expression and distribution, and HEBP2 might aid this process by tethering ALG-2 in the cytoplasm.
Polycystic ovary syndrome is one of the most frequently encountered endocrine malfunctions. Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) plays a vital role in folate metabolism, DNA methylation, and RNA synthesis. We carried out a study to investigate the association between MTHFR C677T and A1298C genetic variations and the risk of polycystic ovary syndrome in a Chinese population. We recruited 244 patients and 257 control subjects from an Inner Mongolian Medical University to this hospital-based, case-control study. The genotyping of the MTHFR C677T and A1298C polymorphisms was carried out using polymerase chain reaction coupled with restriction fragment length polymorphism. Using multiple logistic regression analysis, we found that the TT genotype and the T allele of MTHFR C677T carriers showed increased risk of polycystic ovary syndrome compared with the wild-type genotype or allele carriers. The adjusted ORs for the TT genotype and the T allele of MTHFR C677T were 1.84 (1.05-3.26) and 1.38 (1.06-1.81), respectively. Subjects carrying the CC genotype (OR = 3.98, 95%CI = 1.60-11.23) and the C allele (OR = 1.46, 95%CI = 1.07-2.00) of MTHFR A1298C had an elevated risk of polycystic ovary syndrome compared with the AA genotype and A allele carriers. In conclusion, our study suggests that the MTHFR C677T and A1298C polymorphisms may have contributed to the risk of polycystic ovary syndrome in the Chinese women investigated. Further research involving a greater number of individuals is warranted to confirm our results.
The Youzhou black-skin goat (Capra hircus), an indigenous breed of Chinese southwest. Here, we describe the complete mitochondrial genome sequence of Hechuan white goat. The mitogenome is 16,640 nt in length, consisting of 13 protein-coding genes, 22 transfer RNA (tRNA) genes, 2 ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes and a control region. As in other mammals, most mitochondrial genes are encoded on the heavy strand, except for ND6 and eight tRNA genes, which are encoded on the light strand. Its overall base composition is A: 33.5%, T: 27.3%, C: 26.1% and G: 13.1%. The complete mitogenome of the local subspecies of Hechuan white goat could provide an important data to further breed improvement and animal genetics resource conservation in China.
The Hechuan white goat (Capra hircus), an indigenous of China. Here, we describe the complete mitochondrial genome sequence of Hechuan white goat. The mitogenome is 16,640 nt in length, consisting of 13 protein-coding genes, 22 transfer RNA (tRNA) genes, 2 ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes and a control region. As in other mammals, most mitochondrial genes are encoded on the heavy strand, except for ND6 and eight tRNA genes, which are encoded on the light strand. Its overall base composition is A: 33.5%, T: 27.3%, C: 26.1% and G: 13.1%. The complete mitogenome of the local subspecies of Hechuan white goat could provide an important data to further explore the breed improvement in Chinese goat.
RNA polymerase I (Pol I) is a highly processive enzyme that transcribes ribosomal DNA (rDNA) and regulates growth of eukaryotic cells. Crystal structures of free Pol I from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae have revealed dimers of the enzyme stabilized by a connector' element and an expanded cleft containing the active centre in an inactive conformation. The central bridge helix was unfolded and a Pol-I-specific expander' element occupied the DNA-template-binding site. The structure of Pol I in its active transcribing conformation has yet to be determined, whereas structures of Pol II and Pol III have been solved with bound DNA template and RNA transcript. Here we report structures of active transcribing Pol I from yeast solved by two different cryo-electron microscopy approaches. A single-particle structure at 3.8 Å resolution reveals a contracted active centre cleft with bound DNA and RNA, and a narrowed pore beneath the active site that no longer holds the RNA-cleavage-stimulating domain of subunit A12.2. A structure at 29 Å resolution that was determined from cryo-electron tomograms of Pol I enzymes transcribing cellular rDNA confirms contraction of the cleft and reveals that incoming and exiting rDNA enclose an angle of around 150°. The structures suggest a model for the regulation of transcription elongation in which contracted and expanded polymerase conformations are associated with active and inactive states, respectively.
The complete mitochondrial genome of the Yellow-spotted skate Okamejei hollandi was determined in this study. It is 16,974 bp in length and contains 13 protein-coding genes, two rRNA genes, 22 tRNA genes, and one putative control region. The overall base composition is 30.5% A, 27.8% C, 14.0% G, and 27.8% T. There are 28 bp short intergenic spaces located in 12 gene junctions and 31 bp overlaps located in nine gene junctions in the whole mitogenome. Two start codons (ATG and GTG) and two stop codons (TAG and TAA/T) were used in the protein-coding genes. The lengths of 22 tRNA genes range from 68 (tRNA-Ser2) to 75 (tRNALeu1) bp. The origin of L-strand replication (OL) sequence (37 bp) was identified between the tRNA-Asn and tRNA-Cys genes. The control region is 1311 bp in length with high A + T and poor G content.
Background: Taxonomic profiling of microbial communities is often performed using small subunit ribosomal RNA (SSU) amplicon sequencing (16S or 18S), while environmental shotgun sequencing is often focused on functional analysis. Large shotgun datasets contain a significant number of SSU sequences and these can be exploited to perform an unbiased SSU--based taxonomic analysis. Results: Here we present a new program called RiboTagger that identifies and extracts taxonomically informative ribotags located in a specified variable region of the SSU gene in a high-throughput fashion. Conclusions: RiboTagger permits fast recovery of SSU-RNA sequences from shotgun nucleic acid surveys of complex microbial communities. The program targets all three domains of life, exhibits high sensitivity and specificity and is substantially faster than comparable programs.
The Wolverine Gulo gulo is an endangered species in China. We first obtained blood sample, extracted the sample DNA and sequenced the whole mtDNA genome of wolverine in Northeast China. We built the phylogenetic tree of wolverine and 10 other most closely related Mustelidae species. The wolverine’s complete mitogenome is 16 575 bp in length, includes 13 protein-coding genes, 22 tRNA genes, 2 rRNA genes and one control region. The phylogenetic tree indicates that Wolverine is mostly close to the genus Martes.
Despite the inherent stability of glycosidic linkages in nucleic acids that connect the nucleobases to sugar-phosphate backbones, cleavage of these bonds is often essential for organism survival. The current study uses DFT (B3LYP) to provide a fundamental understanding of the hydrolytic deglycosylation of the natural RNA nucleosides (A, C, G, and U), offers a comparison to DNA hydrolysis, and examines the effects of acid, base, or simultaneous acid-base catalysis on RNA deglycosylation. By initially examining HCOO-···H2O mediated deglycosylation, the barriers for RNA hydrolysis were determined to be 30-38 kJ mol-1 higher than the corresponding DNA barriers, indicating that the 2′-OH group stabilizes the glycosidic bond. Although the presence of HCOO- as the base (i.e., to activate the water nucleophile) reduces the barrier for uncatalyzed RNA hydrolysis (i.e., unactivated H2O nucleophile) by ∼15-20 kJ mol-1, the extreme of base catalysis as modeled using a fully deprotonated water molecule (i.e., OH- nucleophile) decreases the uncatalyzed barriers by up to 65 kJ mol-1. Acid catalysis was subsequently examined by selectively protonating the hydrogen-bond acceptor sites of the RNA nucleobases, which results in an up to ∼80 kJ mol-1 barrier reduction relative to the corresponding uncatalyzed pathway. Interestingly, the nucleobase proton acceptor sites that result in the greatest barrier reductions match sites typically targeted in enzyme-catalyzed reactions. Nevertheless, simultaneous acid and base catalysis is the most beneficial way to enhance the reactivity of the glycosidic bonds in RNA, with the individual effects of each catalytic approach being weakened, additive, or synergistic depending on the strength of the base (i.e., degree of water nucleophile activation), the nucleobase, and the hydrogen-bonding acceptor site on the nucleobase. Together, the current contribution provides a greater understanding of the reactivity of the glycosidic bond in natural RNA nucleosides, and has fundamental implications for the function of RNA-targeting enzymes.
Background: The switch from oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis in proliferating cancer cells, even under aerobic conditions, has been shown first in 1926 by Otto Warburg. Today this phenomenon is known as the "Warburg effect" and recognized as a hallmark of cancer. The metabolic shift to glycolysis is associated with the alterations in signaling pathways involved in energy metabolism, including glucose uptake and fermentation, and regulation of mitochondrial functions. Hexokinases (HKs), which catalyze the first step of glycolysis, have been identified to play a role in tumorigenesis of human colorectal cancer (CRC) and melanoma. However, the mechanism of action of HKs in the promotion of tumor growth remains unclear. Results: The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of silencing of hexokinase genes (HK1, HK2, and HK3) in colorectal cancer (HT-29, SW 480, HCT-15, RKO, and HCT 116) and melanoma (MDA-MB-435S and SK-MEL-28) cell lines using short hairpin RNA (shRNA) lentiviral vectors. shRNA lentiviral plasmid vectors pLSLP-HK1, pLSLP-HK2, and pLSLP-HK3 were constructed and then transfected separately or co-transfected into the cells. HK2 inactivation was associated with increased expression of HK1 in colorectal cancer cell lines pointing to the compensation effect. Simultaneous attenuation of HK1 and HK2 levels led to decreased cell viability. Co-transfection with shRNA vectors against HK1, HK2, and HK3 mRNAs resulted in a rapid cell death via apoptosis. Conclusions: We have demonstrated that simultaneous inactivation of HK1 and HK2 was sufficient to decrease proliferation and viability of melanoma and colorectal cancer cells. Our results suggest that HK1 and HK2 could be the key therapeutic targets for reducing aerobic glycolysis in examined cancers.
Background: RNA is often targeted to be localized to the specific subcellular compartments. Specific localization of mRNA is believed to be an important mechanism for targeting their protein products to the locations, where their function is required. Results: In this study we performed the genome wide transcriptome analysis of peroxisome preparations from the mouse liver using microarrays. We demonstrate that RNA is absent inside peroxisomes, however it is associated at their exterior via the noncovalent contacts with the membrane proteins. We detect enrichment of specific sets of transcripts in two preparations of peroxisomes, purified with different degrees of stringency. Importantly, among these were mRNAs encoding bona fide peroxisomal proteins, such as peroxins and peroxisomal matrix enzymes involved in beta-oxidation of fatty acids and bile acid biosynthesis. The top-most enriched mRNA, whose association with peroxisomes we confirm microscopically was Hmgcs1, encoding 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA synthase, a crucial enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. We observed significant representation of mRNAs encoding mitochondrial and secreted proteins in the peroxisomal fractions. Conclusions: This is a pioneer genome-wide study of localization of mRNAs to peroxisomes that provides foundation for more detailed dissection of mechanisms of RNA targeting to subcellular compartments.
The complete chloroplast (cp) genome of the Sinopodophyllum hexandrum (Berberidaceae) was determined in this study. The circular genome is 157,940 bp in size, and comprises a pair of inverted repeat (IR) regions of 26,077 bp each, a large single-copy (LSC) region of 86,460 bp and a small single-copy (SSC) region of 19,326 bp. The GC content of the whole cp genome was 38.5%. A total of 133 genes were identified, including 88 protein-coding genes, 37 tRNA genes and eight rRNA genes. The whole cp genome consists of 114 unique genes, and 19 genes are duplicated in the IR regions. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that S. hexandrum is closely related to Nandina domestica within the family Berberidaceae.
Thus, the cGAS-cGAMP-STING pathway plays a critical role in pathogen detection, as well as pathophysiological conditions including cancer and autoimmune disorders. However, studying and targeting this immune signaling pathway has been challenging due to the absence of tools for high-throughput analysis. We have engineered an RNA-based fluorescent biosensor that responds to 2′,3′-cGAMP. The resulting “mix-and-go” cGAS activity assay shows excellent statistical reliability as a high-throughput screening (HTS) assay and distinguishes between direct and indirect cGAS inhibitors. Furthermore, the biosensor enables quantitation of 2′,3′-cGAMP in mammalian cell lysates. We envision this biosensor-based assay as a resource to study the cGAS-cGAMP-STING pathway in the context of infectious diseases, cancer immunotherapy, and autoimmune diseases.
Background: Gemcitabine is used as a standard drug treatment for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but treatment responses vary among patients. Our previous studies demonstrated that POLA2 + 1747 GG/GA single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) improves differential survivability and mortality in NSCLC patients. Here, we determined the association between POLA2 and gemcitabine treatment in human lung cancer cells. Results: Human PC9, H1299 and H1650 lung cancer cell lines were treated with 0.01-100 μM gemcitabine for 72 h. Although all 3 cell lines showed decreased cell viability upon gemcitabine treatment, H1299 was found to be the most sensitive to gemcitabine treatment. Next, sequencing was performed to determine if POLA2 + 1747 SNP might be involved in gemcitabine sensitivity. Data revealed that all 3 cell lines harbored the wild-type POLA2 + 1747 GG SNP, indicating that the POLA2 + 1747 SNP might not be responsible for gemcitabine sensitivity in the cell lines studied. Silencing of POLA2 gene in H1299 was then carried out by siRNA transfection, followed by gemcitabine treatment to determine the effect of POLA2 knockdown on chemosensitivity to gemcitabine. Results showed that H1299 exhibited increased resistance to gemcitabine after POLA2 knockdown, suggesting that POLA2 does not act alone and may cooperate with other interacting partners to cause gemcitabine resistance. Conclusions: Collectively, our findings showed that knockdown of POLA2 increases gemcitabine resistance in human lung cancer cells. We propose that POLA2 may play a role in gemcitabine sensitivity and can be used as a prognostic biomarker of patient outcome in NSCLC pathogenesis.
Hypoxia is a major driving force of cancer invasion and metastasis. Here we show that death domain-associated protein (Daxx) acts to negatively regulate hypoxia-induced cell dissemination and invasion by inhibiting the HIF-1α/HDAC1/Slug pathway. Daxx directly binds to the DNA-binding domain of Slug, impeding histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) recruitment and antagonizing Slug E-box binding. This, in turn, stimulates E-cadherin and occludin expression and suppresses Slug-mediated epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cell invasiveness. Under hypoxic conditions, stabilized hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α downregulates Daxx expression and promotes cancer invasion, whereas re-expression of Daxx represses hypoxia-induced cancer invasion. Daxx also suppresses Slug-mediated lung cancer metastasis in an orthotopic lung metastasis mouse model. Using clinical tumour samples, we confirmed that the HIF-1α/Daxx/Slug pathway is an outcome predictor. Our results support that Daxx can act as a repressor in controlling HIF-1α/HDAC1/Slug-mediated cancer cell invasion and is a potential therapeutic target for inhibition of cancer metastasis.
Hexanucleotide repeat expansion in the bi-directionally transcribed C9orf72 gene is the most frequent cause of familial ALS and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Kramer et al. (2016) report in Science that targeted reduction in the transcription elongation factor SUPT4H1/SUPT5H reduces both sense and antisense repeat-containing RNAs and their associated neurodegeneration.
A DNA-based approach allows external control over the self-assembly process of tobacco mosaic virus (TMV)-like ribonucleoprotein nanotubes: their growth from viral coat protein (CP) subunits on five distinct RNA scaffolds containing the TMV origin of assembly (OAs) could be temporarily blocked by a stopper DNA oligomer hybridized downstream (3′) of the OAs. At two upstream (5′) sites tested, simple hybridization was not sufficient for stable stalling, which correlates with previous findings on a non-symmetric assembly of TMV. The growth of DNA-arrested particles could be restarted efficiently by displacement of the stopper via its toehold by using a release DNA oligomer, even after storage for twelve days. This novel strategy for growing proteinaceous tubes under tight kinetic and spatial control combines RNA guidance and its site-specific but reversible interruption by DNA blocking elements. As three of the RNA scaffolds contained long heterologous non-TMV sequence portions that included the stopping sites, this method is applicable to all RNAs amenable to TMV CP encapsidation, albeit with variable efficiency most likely depending on the scaffolds' secondary structures. The use of two distinct, selectively addressable CP variants during the serial assembly stages finally enabled an externally configured fabrication of nanotubes with highly defined subdomains. The "stop-and-go" strategy thus might pave the way towards production routines of TMV-like particles with variable aspect ratios from a single RNA scaffold, and of nanotubes with two or even more adjacent protein domains of tightly pre-defined lengths.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Charge mobilities of six DNAs and RNAs have been computed using quantum chemistry calculation combined with the Marcus-Hush theory. Based on this simulation model, we obtained quite reasonable results when compared with the experiment, and the obtained charge mobility strongly depends on the molecular reorganization and electronic coupling. Besides, we find that hole mobilities are larger than electron mobilities no matter in DNAs or in RNAs, and the hole mobility of 2L8I can reach 1.09 × 10−1 cm2 V−1 s−1 which can be applied in the molecular wire. The findings also show that our theoretical model can be regarded as a promising candidate for screening DNA- and RNA-based molecular electronic devices.
In gonadal tissues, the Piwi-interacting (piRNA) pathway preserves genomic integrity by employing 23-29 nucleotide (nt) small RNAs complexed with argonaute proteins to suppress parasitic mobile sequences of DNA called transposable elements (TEs). Although recent evidence suggests that the piRNA pathway may be present in select somatic cells outside the gonads, the role of a non-gonadal somatic piRNA pathway is not well characterized. Here we report a functional somatic piRNA pathway in the adult Drosophila fat body including the presence of the piRNA effector protein Piwi and canonical 23-29 nt long TE-mapping piRNAs. The piwi mutants exhibit depletion of fat body piRNAs, increased TE mobilization, increased levels of DNA damage and reduced lipid stores. These mutants are starvation sensitive, immunologically compromised and short-lived, all phenotypes associated with compromised fat body function. These findings demonstrate the presence of a functional non-gonadal somatic piRNA pathway in the adult fat body that affects normal metabolism and overall organismal health.
While DNA is mostly a primary carrier of genetic information and displays a regular duplex structure, RNA can form very complicated and conserved 3D structures displaying a large variety of functions, such as being an intermediary carrier of the genetic information, translating such information into the protein machinery of the cell, or even acting as a chemical catalyst. At the base of such functional diversity is the subtle balance between different backbone, nucleobase, and ribose conformations, finely regulated by the combination of hydrogen bonds and stacking interactions. Although an apparently simple chemical modification, the presence of the 2′OH in RNA has a profound effect in the ribonucleotide conformational balance, adding an extra layer of complexity to the interactions network in RNA. In the present work, we have combined database analysis with extensive molecular dynamics, quantum mechanics, and hybrid QM/MM simulations to provide direct evidence on the dramatic impact of the 2′OH conformation on sugar puckering. Calculations provide evidence that proteins can modulate the 2′OH conformation to drive sugar repuckering, leading then to the formation of bioactive conformations. In summary, the 2′OH group seems to be a primary molecular switch contributing to specific protein-RNA recognition.
Nucleic acids are characterized by a complex hierarchical structure and a variety of interaction mechanisms with other molecules. These features suggest the need of multiscale simulation methods in order to grasp the relevant physical properties of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and RNA using in silico experiments. Here we report an implementation of a dual-resolution modeling of a DNA oligonucleotide in physiological conditions; in the presented setup only the nucleotide molecule and the solvent and ions in its proximity are described at the atomistic level; in contrast, the water molecules and ions far from the DNA are represented as computationally less expensive coarse-grained particles. Through the analysis of several structural and dynamical parameters, we show that this setup reliably reproduces the physical properties of the DNA molecule as observed in reference atomistic simulations. These results represent a first step towards a realistic multiscale modeling of nucleic acids and provide a quantitatively solid ground for their simulation using dual-resolution methods.
Sperm cells are remarkably complex and highly specialized compared to somatic cells. Their function is to deliver to the oocyte the paternal genomic blueprint along with a pool of proteins and RNAs so a new generation can begin. Reproductive success, including optimal embryonic development and healthy offspring, greatly depends on the integrity of the sperm chromatin structure. It is now well documented that DNA damage in sperm is linked to reproductive failures both in natural and assisted conception (Assisted Reproductive Technologies [ART]). This manuscript reviews recent important findings concerning - the unusual organization of mammalian sperm chromatin and its impact on reproductive success when modified. This review is focused on sperm chromatin damage and their impact on embryonic development and transgenerational inheritance.
The CRISPR-Cas9 system has revolutionized the process of making changes to the DNA sequence of organisms. Relying on a simplistic model of RNA guided DNA binding and cleavage, this molecular toolbox has found application in nearly every branch of biological sciences. The story of CRISPR-Cas9 is one of discovery and development where a component of bacterial adaptive immunity has been harnessed to address important biological questions using significant inputs from physicochemical structure-function studies. In this review, we trace the evolution of CRISPR-Cas9 from its predecessor genome editing tools and document its current status with an emphasis on chemical biology aspects of modulating its activity to generate a potent tool for gene therapy applications.
Brain is an immensely complex system displaying dynamic and heterogeneous metabolic activities. Visualizing cellular metabolism of nucleic acids, proteins, and lipids in brain with chemical specificity has been a long-standing challenge. Recent development in metabolic labeling of small biomolecules allows the study of these metabolisms at the global level. However, these techniques generally require nonphysiological sample preparation for either destructive mass spectrometry imaging or secondary labeling with relatively bulky fluorescent labels. In this study, we have demonstrated bioorthogonal chemical imaging of DNA, RNA, protein and lipid metabolism in live rat brain hippocampal tissues by coupling stimulated Raman scattering microscopy with integrated deuterium and alkyne labeling. Heterogeneous metabolic incorporations for different molecular species and neurogenesis with newly-incorporated DNA were observed in the dentate gyrus of hippocampus at the single cell level. We further applied this platform to study metabolic responses to traumatic brain injury in hippocampal slice cultures, and observed marked upregulation of protein and lipid metabolism particularly in the hilus region of the hippocampus within days of mechanical injury. Thus, our method paves the way for the study of complex metabolic profiles in live brain tissue under both physiological and pathological conditions with single-cell resolution and minimal perturbation.
Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. AIM To analyze colorectal carcinogenesis and age-related DNA methylation alterations of gene sequences associated with epigenetic clock CpG sites. METHODS In silico DNA methylation analysis of 353 epigenetic clock CpG sites published by Steve Horvath was performed using methylation array data for a set of 123 colonic tissue samples [64 colorectal cancer (CRC), 42 adenoma, 17 normal; GEO accession number: GSE48684]. Among the differentially methylated agerelated genes, secreted frizzled related protein 1 (SFRP1 ) promoter methylation was further investigated in colonic tissue from 8 healthy adults, 19 normal children, 20 adenoma and 8 CRC patients using bisulfite-specific PCR followed by methylation-specific high resolution melting (MS-HRM) analysis. mRNA expression of age-related "epigenetic clock" genes was studied using Affymetrix HGU133 Plus2.0 whole transcriptome data of 153 colonic biopsy samples (49 healthy adult, 49 adenoma, 49 CRC, 6 healthy children) (GEO accession numbers: GSE37364, GSE10714, GSE4183, GSE37267). Whole promoter methylation analysis of genes showing inverse DNA methylationgene expression data was performed on 30 colonic samples using methyl capture sequencing. RESULTS Fifty-seven age-related CpG sites including hypermethylated PPP1R16B, SFRP1, SYNE1 and hypomethylated MGP, PIPOX were differentially methylated between CRC and normal tissues (P < 0.05, Δβ ≥ 10%). In the adenoma vs normal comparison, 70 CpG sites differed significantly, including hypermethylated DKK3, SDC2, SFRP1, SYNE1 and hypomethylated CEMIP, SPATA18 (P < 0.05, Δβ ≥ 10%). In MS-HRM analysis, the SFRP1 promoter region was significantly hypermethylated in CRC (55.0% ± 8.4 %) and adenoma tissue samples (49.9% ± 18.1%) compared to normal adult (5.2% ± 2.7%) and young (2.2% ± 0.7%) colonic tissue (P < 0.0001). DNA methylation of SFRP1 promoter was slightly, but significantly increased in healthy adults compared to normal young samples (P < 0.02). This correlated with significantly increased SFRP1 mRNA levels in children compared to normal adult samples (P < 0.05). In CRC tissue the mRNA expression of 117 agerelated genes were changed, while in adenoma samples 102 genes showed differential expression compared with normal colonic tissue (P < 0.05, logFC > 0.5). The change of expression for several genes including SYNE1 , CLEC3B, LTBP3 and SFRP1, followed the same pattern in aging and carcinogenesis, though not for all genes (e.g. , MGP). CONCLUSION Several age-related DNA methylation alterations can be observed during CRC development and progression affecting the mRNA expression of certain CRC- and adenoma-related key control genes.
Dystonia is a brain disorder causing involuntary, often painful movements. Apart from a role for dopamine deficiency in some forms, the cellular mechanisms underlying most dystonias are currently unknown. Here, we discover a role for deficient eIF2α signaling in DYT1 dystonia, a rare inherited generalized form, through a genome-wide RNAi screen. Subsequent experiments including patient-derived cells and a mouse model support both a pathogenic role and therapeutic potential for eIF2α pathway perturbations. We further find genetic and functional evidence supporting similar pathway impairment in patients with sporadic cervical dystonia, due to rare coding variation in the eIF2α effector ATF4. Considering also that another dystonia, DYT16, involves a gene upstream of the eIF2α pathway, these results mechanistically link multiple forms of dystonia and put forth a new overall cellular mechanism for dystonia pathogenesis, impairment of eIF2α signaling, a pathway known for its roles in cellular stress responses and synaptic plasticity.
Coxiella burnetii is an intracellular bacterial pathogen that infects alveolar macrophages and replicates within a unique lysosome-derived vacuole. When Coxiella is trafficked to a host cell lysosome the essential Dot/Icm type IV secretion system is activated allowing over 130 bacterial effector proteins to be translocated into the host cytosol. This cohort of effectors is believed to manipulate host cell functions to facilitate Coxiella-containing vacuole (CCV) biogenesis and bacterial replication. Transposon mutagenesis has demonstrated that the Dot/Icm effector Cig57 is required for CCV development and intracellular replication of Coxiella. Here, we demonstrate a role for Cig57 in subverting clathrin-mediated traffic through its interaction with FCHO2, an accessory protein of clathrin coated pits. A yeast two-hybrid screen identified FCHO2 as a binding partner of Cig57 and this interaction was confirmed during infection using immunoprecipitation experiments. The interaction between Cig57 and FCHO2 is dependent on one of three endocytic sorting motif encoded by Cig57. Importantly, complementation analysis demonstrated that this endocytic sorting motif is required for full function of Cig57. Consistent with the intracellular growth defect in cig57-disrupted Coxiella, siRNA gene silencing of FCHO2 or clathrin (CLTC) inhibits Coxiella growth and CCV biogenesis. Clathrin is recruited to the replicative CCV in a manner that is dependent on the interaction between Cig57 and FCHO2. Creation of an FCHO2 knockout cell line confirmed the importance of this protein for CCV expansion, intracellular replication of Coxiella and clathrin recruitment to the CCV. Collectively, these results reveal Cig57 to be a significant virulence factor that co-opts clathrin-mediated trafficking, via interaction with FCHO2, to facilitate the biogenesis of the fusogenic Coxiella replicative vacuole and enable intracellular success of this human pathogen.
Background: The expression of transglutaminase 2 (TG2) is correlated to DNA damage repair and apoptosis through the p53 pathway. The present study aimed to investigate the potential radiosensitization effect and possible mechanisms of the TG2 inhibitor KCC009 in lung cancer in vitro. Material/Methods: A single hit multi-target model was used to plot survival curves and to calculate the sensitizing enhancement ratios in lung cancer wild-type or mutant p53 of H1299 cells. We performed analyses for changes of cell cycling and apoptotic responses of cells; Western blot analysis and real-time SYBR Green PCR assay were used to determine the changes of mRNA/protein expressions; ELISA assay was used for examination of cytochrome c release in cytoplasm. Results: Our results showed that KCC009 induced radiosensitization in both H1299/WT-p53 and H1299/M175H-p53 cells. KCC009+IR induced G0/G1 arrest in H1299/WT cells and G2/M arrest in H1299/M175H-p53 cells. KCC009+IR also induced apoptosis in both cell lines. In addition, KCC009+IR decreased the TG2 expression, and increased the p53 expression in H1299/WT cells but not in H1299/M175H-p53 cells. KCC009+IR also increased the expression of p21, Bax, p-caspase-3, and decreased Bcl-2 and CyclinD expression in H1299/WT cells. While KCC009+IR induced phosphorylation of caspase-3 and increase Cyt-C level in the cytoplasm of, and decreased CyclinB, Bcl-2 expression in H1299/M175H-p53 cells, we noticed that Cyt-C level in the nucleus decreased in the H1299/WT cells. Conclusions: KCC009, a TG2 inhibitor, exhibits potent radiosensitization effects in human lung cancer cells expressing wild type or mutant p53 with different mechanisms.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common and severe cancers worldwide. The occurrence of CRC is developed by accumulation of genetic and epigenetic alteration in colon cells. Work over the last decade has proposed that epigenetic changes such as DNA methylation, histone modification of protein coding genes play an important role in CRC development. However, the epigenetic pattern and features of lncRNAs in CRC were unclear. Here, we comprehensively analyze the patterns of DNA methylation, H3K4me3, H3K27me3 on both protein coding genes and lncRNAs. We found several interesting results which may help to discriminate the lncRNAs from protein coding genes. For example, the signals of DNA methylation and H3K4me3 are higher on protein coding genes than lncRNAs, but not for H3K27me3; the three epigenetic marks show different distribution on promoters, termination and across the whole gene between protein coding genes and lncRNAs, especially DNA methylation, which show regular signal tendency according to the principle of gene transcription. In addition, we further analyzed the affections of epigenetic marks on protein coding gene and lncRNA expression in HCT116 colon cell. Most of the results were consistent with the previous reports such as H3K27me3 is an repressive mark. Furthermore, we analyzed the relationships among the three epigenetic marks and found that DNA methylation and H3K4me3 were positively correlated in promoter and termination region for both protein coding genes and lncRNAs. In a word, our results will give a clue to further study the pathologies of CRC.
Conspectus The discovery of RNA catalysis in the 1980s and the dissemination of the human genome sequence at the start of this century inspired investigations of the regulatory roles of noncoding RNAs in biology. In fact, the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) project has shown that only 1-2% of the human genome encodes protein, yet 75% is transcribed into RNA. Functional studies both preceding and following the ENCODE project have shown that these noncoding RNAs have important roles in regulating gene expression, developmental timing, and other critical functions. RNA’s diverse roles are often a consequence of the various folds that it adopts. The single-stranded nature of the biopolymer enables it to adopt intramolecular folds with noncanonical pairings to lower its free energy. These folds can be scaffolds to bind proteins or to form frameworks to interact with other RNAs. Not surprisingly, dysregulation of certain noncoding RNAs has been shown to be causative of disease. Given this as the background, it is easy to see why it would be useful to develop methods that target RNA and manipulate its biology in rational and predictable ways. The antisense approach has afforded strategies to target RNAs via Watson-Crick base pairing and has typically focused on targeting partially unstructured regions of RNA. Small molecule strategies to target RNA would be desirable not only because compounds could be lead optimized via medicinal chemistry but also because structured regions within an RNA of interest could be targeted to directly interfere with RNA folds that contribute to disease. Additionally, small molecules have historically been the most successful drug candidates. Until recently, the ability to design small molecules that target non-ribosomal RNAs has been elusive, creating the perception that they are “undruggable”. In this Account, approaches to demystify targeting RNA with small molecules are described. Rather than bulk screening for compounds that bind to singular targets, which is the purview of the pharmaceutical industry and academic institutions with high throughput screening facilities, we focus on methods that allow for the rational design of small molecules toward biological RNAs. One enabling and foundational technology that has been developed is two-dimensional combinatorial screening (2DCS), a library-versus-library selection approach that allows the identification of the RNA motif binding preferences of small molecules from millions of combinations. A landscape map of the 2DCS-defined and annotated RNA motif-small molecule interactions is then placed into Inforna, a computational tool that allows one to mine these interactions against an RNA of interest or an entire transcriptome. Indeed, this approach has been enabled by tools to annotate RNA structure from sequence, an invaluable asset to the RNA community and this work, and has allowed for the rational identification of “druggable” RNAs in a target agnostic fashion.
miRNAs constitute an important layer of gene regulation mediated by sequence-specific targeting of mRNAs. Aberrant expression of miRNAs contributes to a host of pathological states. Promoting cancer, miR-21 is upregulated in variety of cancers and promotes tumor progresion by suppressing a network of tumor suppressor genes. Here we describe a novel class of bicyclic RNA analogues, selenomethylene-locked nucleic acid (SeLNA), that display high affinity, improved metabolic stability, and increased potency for miR-21 inhibition. The thermal stability (Tm) for duplexes was increased significantly with incorporation of SeLNA monomers as compared to that of the unmodified DNA-RNA hybrid. A comprehensive thermodynamic profile obtained by isothermal titration calorimetry revealed a favorable increase in the enthalpy of hybridization for SeLNA containing DNA and target RNA heteroduplexes. SeLNA modifications displayed remarkable binding affinity for miR-21 target RNA with a Ka of ≤1.05 × 108 M-1. We also observed enhanced serum stability for SeLNA-RNA duplexes with a half-life of ≤36 h. These in vitro results were well correlated with the antisense activity in cancer cells imparting up to ∼91% inhibition of miR-21. The functional impact of SeLNA modifications on miR-21 inhibition was further gauged by investigating the migration and invasion characterisitics of cancer cells, which were drastically reduced to ∼49 and ∼55%, respectively, with SeLNA having four such modifications. Our findings demonstrate SeLNA as a promising candidate for therapeutics for disease-associated miRNAs.
TET-family dioxygenases catalyze conversion of 5-methylcytosine (5mC) to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) and oxidized methylcytosines in DNA. Here, we show that mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), either lacking Tet3 alone or with triple deficiency of Tet1/2/3, displayed impaired adoption of neural cell fate and concomitantly skewed toward cardiac mesodermal fate. Conversely, ectopic expression of Tet3 enhanced neural differentiation and limited cardiac mesoderm specification. Genome-wide analyses showed that Tet3 mediates cell-fate decisions by inhibiting Wnt signaling, partly through promoter demethylation and transcriptional activation of the Wnt inhibitor secreted frizzled-related protein 4 (Sfrp4). Tet1/2/3-deficient embryos (embryonic day 8.0-8.5) showed hyperactivated Wnt signaling, as well as aberrant differentiation of bipotent neuromesodermal progenitors (NMPs) into mesoderm at the expense of neuroectoderm. Our data demonstrate a key role for TET proteins in modulating Wnt signaling and establishing the proper balance between neural and mesodermal cell fate determination in mouse embryos and ESCs.
Cricetulus migratorius is widely distributed in the northwestern arid regions of China. Here, the complete mitochondrial genome (mitogenome) of C. migratorius is reported, to our knowledge, for the first time. It was found to be 16,246 bp in length, including 13 protein-coding genes (PCGs), 2 rRNA genes, 22 tRNA genes, and one control region, and showed characteristics typical of the vertebrate mitogenome. Comparative analyses of mitogenomes of Cricetulus species showed that hamster mitogenomes had the same arrangement and organizational structure. The base composition was AT-rich for all Cricetulus species. We elaborated the PCG sequence and found that the main differences in the start and stop codons were in the ND3 gene; the most frequently used codons were AUU (Ile) and CUA (Leu), and the AT-content at the 3rd position was lower than that at 1st and 2nd positions in all Cricetulus species. The second tRNAser had lost the dihydrouridine stem-loop structure, which is found in all Cricetulus species. We also elucidated the structure of the control region (the extended termination associated sequences, the central conserved sequences, and the conserved sequence blocks), and the putative origin of replication for the light strand in all Cricetulus species. Based on mitogenome data with four reconstructed methods, phylogenetic trees showed high resolution in the divergent clades within Cricetulus. The results indicated that Cricetulus kamensis is at basal position, and has the earliest split among all Cricetulus species. Cricetulus griseus and Cricetulus longicaudatus clustered in a subclade, and were separate from C. kamensis. As previous studies have shown, Tscherskia triton is part of Cricetulus with high support value. It is noteworthy that C. migratorius is a young species, and has a close relationship with Allocricetulus eversmanni within Cricetulus, which is closer to the subgenus Allocricetulus.
Previously we reported that Src-associated-substrate-during-mitosis-of-68kDa (Sam68/KHDRBS1) is pivotal for DNA damage-stimulated NF-κB transactivation of anti-apoptotic genes (Fu et al., 2016). Here we show that Sam68 is critical for genotoxic stress-induced NF-κB activation in the γ-irradiated colon and animal and that Sam68-dependent NF-κB activation provides radioprotection to colon epithelium in vivo. Sam68 deletion diminishes γ-irradiation-triggered PAR synthesis and NF-κB activation in colon epithelial cells (CECs), thus hampering the expression of anti-apoptotic molecules in situ and facilitating CECs to undergo apoptosis in mice post whole-body γ-irradiation (WBIR). Sam68 knockout mice suffer more severe damage in the colon and succumb more rapidly from acute radiotoxicity than the control mice following WBIR. Our results underscore the critical role of Sam68 in orchestrating genotoxic stress-initiated NF-κB activation signaling in the colon tissue and whole animal and reveal the pathophysiological relevance of Sam68-dependent NF-κB activation in colonic cell survival and recovery from extrinsic DNA damage.
Background: Although next generation sequencing (NGS) offers the potential for studying virus populations in unprecedented depth, PCR error, amplification bias and recombination during library construction have limited its use to population sequencing and measurements of unlinked allele frequencies. Here we report a method, termed ultrasensitive Single-Genome Sequencing (uSGS), for NGS library construction and analysis that eliminates PCR errors and recombinants, and generates single-genome sequences of the same quality as the "gold-standard" of HIV-1 single-genome sequencing assay but with more than 100-fold greater depth. Results: Primer ID tagged cDNA was synthesized from mixtures of cloned BH10 wild-type and mutant HIV-1 transcripts containing ten drug resistance mutations. First, the resultant cDNA was divided and NGS libraries were generated in parallel using two methods: uSGS and a method applying long PCR primers to attach the NGS adaptors (LP-PCR-1). Second, cDNA was divided and NGS libraries were generated in parallel comparing 3 methods: uSGS and 2 methods adapted from more recent reports using variations of the long PCR primers to attach the adaptors (LP-PCR-2 and LP-PCR-3). Consistently, the uSGS method amplified a greater proportion of cDNAs, averaging 30% compared to 13% for LP-PCR-1, 21% for LP-PCR-2 and 14% for LP-PCR-3. Most importantly, when the uSGS sequences were binned according to their primer IDs, 94% of the bins did not contain PCR recombinant sequences versus only 55, 75 and 65% for LP-PCR-1, 2 and 3, respectively. Finally, when uSGS was applied to plasma samples from HIV-1 infected donors, both frequent and rare variants were detected in each sample and neighbor-joining trees revealed clusters of genomes driven by the linkage of these mutations, showing the lack of PCR recombinants in the datasets. Conclusions: The uSGS assay can be used for accurate detection of rare variants and for identifying linkage of rare alleles associated with HIV-1 drug resistance. In addition, the method allows accurate in-depth analyses of the complex genetic relationships of viral populations in vivo.
Tumour heterogeneity refers to the fact that different tumour cells can show distinct morphological and phenotypic profiles, including cellular morphology, gene expression, metabolism, motility, proliferation and metastatic potential. This phenomenon occurs both between tumours (inter-tumour heterogeneity) and within tumours (intra-tumour heterogeneity), and it is caused by genetic and non-genetic factors. The heterogeneity of cancer cells introduces significant challenges in using molecular prognostic markers as well as for classifying patients that might benefit from specific therapies. Thus, research efforts for characterizing heterogeneity would be useful for a better understanding of the causes and progression of disease. It has been suggested that the study of heterogeneity within Circulating Tumour Cells (CTCs) could also reflect the full spectrum of mutations of the disease more accurately than a single biopsy of a primary or metastatic tumour. In previous years, many high throughput methodologies have raised for the study of heterogeneity at different levels (i.e., RNA, DNA, protein and epigenetic events). The aim of the current review is to stress clinical implications of tumour heterogeneity, as well as current available methodologies for their study, paying specific attention to those able to assess heterogeneity at the single cell level.
Actinoalloteichus hymeniacidonis HPA 177T is a Gram-positive, strictly aerobic, black pigment producing and spore-forming actinomycete, which forms branching vegetative hyphae and was isolated from the marine sponge Hymeniacidon perlevis. Actinomycete bacteria are prolific producers of secondary metabolites, some of which have been developed into anti-microbial, anti-tumor and immunosuppressive drugs currently used in human therapy. Considering this and the growing interest in natural products as sources of new drugs, actinomycete bacteria from the hitherto poorly explored marine environments may represent promising sources for drug discovery. As A. hymeniacidonis, isolated from the marine sponge, is a type strain of the recently described and rare genus Actinoalloteichus, knowledge of the complete genome sequence enables genome analyses to identify genetic loci for novel bioactive compounds. This project, describing the 6.31Mbp long chromosome, with its 5346 protein-coding and 73 RNA genes, will aid the Genomic Encyclopedia of Bacteria and Archaea project.
The nuclear matrix (NM), or nuclear skeleton, is the non-chromatin, ribonucleoproteinaceous framework that is resistant to high ionic strength buffers, nonionic detergents, and nucleolytic enzymes. The NM fulfills a structural role in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for maintaining the shape of the nucleus and the spatial organization of chromatin. Moreover, the NM participates in several cellular processes, such as DNA replication/repair, gene expression, RNA transport, cell signaling and differentiation, cell cycle regulation, apoptosis and carcinogenesis. Short nucleotide sequences called scaffold/matrix attachment regions (S/MAR) anchor the chromatin loops to the NM proteins (NMP). The NMP composition is dynamic and depends on the cell type and differentiation stage or metabolic activity. Alterations in the NMP composition affect anchoring of the S/MARs and thus alter gene expression. This review aims to systematize information about the skeletal structure of the nucleus, with particular emphasis on the organization of the NM and its role in selected cellular processes. We also discuss several diseases that are caused by aberrant NM structure or dysfunction of individual NM elements.
Background: A major obstacle in single-cell sequencing is sample contamination with foreign DNA. To guarantee clean genome assemblies and to prevent the introduction of contamination into public databases, considerable quality control efforts are put into post-sequencing analysis. Contamination screening generally relies on reference-based methods such as database alignment or marker gene search, which limits the set of detectable contaminants to organisms with closely related reference species. As genomic coverage in the tree of life is highly fragmented, there is an urgent need for a reference-free methodology for contaminant identification in sequence data. Results: We present acdc, a tool specifically developed to aid the quality control process of genomic sequence data. By combining supervised and unsupervised methods, it reliably detects both known and de novo contaminants. First, 16S rRNA gene prediction and the inclusion of ultrafast exact alignment techniques allow sequence classification using existing knowledge from databases. Second, reference-free inspection is enabled by the use of state-of-the-art machine learning techniques that include fast, non-linear dimensionality reduction of oligonucleotide signatures and subsequent clustering algorithms that automatically estimate the number of clusters. The latter also enables the removal of any contaminant, yielding a clean sample. Furthermore, given the data complexity and the ill-posedness of clustering, acdc employs bootstrapping techniques to provide statistically profound confidence values. Tested on a large number of samples from diverse sequencing projects, our software is able to quickly and accurately identify contamination. Results are displayed in an interactive user interface. Acdc can be run from the web as well as a dedicated command line application, which allows easy integration into large sequencing project analysis workflows. Conclusions: Acdc can reliably detect contamination in single-cell genome data. In addition to database-driven detection, it complements existing tools by its unsupervised techniques, which allow for the detection of de novo contaminants. Our contribution has the potential to drastically reduce the amount of resources put into these processes, particularly in the context of limited availability of reference species. As single-cell genome data continues to grow rapidly, acdc adds to the toolkit of crucial quality assurance tools.
Aims: The present study was designed to investigate a possible interaction between vascular smooth muscle cell (SMC)-derived proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) damage. Results: Treatment of cultured SMCs with the proinflammatory stimulus lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated PCSK9 release and induced mtDNA damage. PCSK9 inhibition by its siRNA reduced, and its enhancement increased, mtDNA damage. Induction of mitochondria-derived reactive oxygen species (mtROS) (by rotenone, thenoyltrifluoroacetone, or antimycin A) enhanced mtDNA damage as well as PCSK9 release, suggesting a role of mtROS in PCSK9-mtDNA damage interplay. Induction of mtDNA damage (with the autophagy inhibitor, 3-methyladenine, or DNase II inhibition) enhanced PCSK9 expression, and inhibition of mtDNA damage (with the autophagy inducer, rapamycin) reduced PCSK9 expression, indicating bidirectional interplay between PCSK9 and mtDNA damage. Other studies showed that p38 MAPK is involved in PCSK9-induced mtDNA damage, and mammalian target of rapamycin activation plays a role in mtDNA damage-induced PCSK9 release. Functional impact of PCSK9-mtDNA damage cross-talk was evident in the form of SMC apoptosis, which was enhanced in cells treated with recombinant human PCSK9, but inhibited in cells treated with PCSK9 siRNA. Last, LPS administration in wild-type mice resulted in simultaneous PCSK9 release and mtDNA damage, but mtDNA damage was minimal in PCSK9-null mice given LPS. Innovation: Vascular SMC-derived PCSK9 induces mtDNA damage, and damaged mtDNA fragments stimulate PCSK9 release mediated, at least in part, by mtROS. Conclusions: These observations suggest positive feedback interplay between SMC-derived PCSK9 and mtDNA damage in the proinflammatory milieu involving mtROS. This interaction results in cellular injury, characterized by apoptosis-a hallmark of atherosclerosis. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 25, 997-1008.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. All rights reserved. Objectives: To evaluate the maintenance of virological suppression (VS) in antiretroviral-treated HIV-1-suppressed patients switching to a tenofovir/emtricitabine/rilpivirine (TDF/FTC/RPV) single-tablet regimen, by considering pre-existent resistance (pRes). Methods: pRes was evaluated according to resistance on all previous plasma genotypic resistance tests. Probability and predictors of virological rebound (VR) were evaluated. Results: Three hundred and nine patients were analysed; 5.8% of them showed resistance to both NRTIs and NNRTIs, while 12.6%showed resistance to only one of these drug classes. By 72 weeks, the probability of VR was 11.3%. A higher probability of VR was found in the following groups: (i) patients with NRTI+NNRTI pRes compared with those harbouring NRTI or NNRTI pRes and with those without reverse transcriptase inhibitor pRes (39.2% versus 11.5% versus 9.4%, P < 0.0001); (ii) patients with a virus with full/intermediate resistance to both tenofovir/emtricitabine and rilpivirine compared with those having a virus with full/intermediate resistance to tenofovir/emtricitabine or rilpivirine and those having a virus fully susceptible to TDF/FTC/RPV (36.4% versus 17.8% versus 9.7%, P < 0.001); and (iii) patients with pre-therapy viraemia > 500 000 copies/mL compared with those with lower viraemia levels (> 500 000: 16.0%; 100 000-500 000: 9.3%; < 100 000 copies/mL: 4.8%, P=0.009). pRes and pre-therapy viraemia > 500 000 copies/mL were independent predictors of VR by multivariable Cox regression. Conclusions: TDF/FTC/RPV as a treatment simplification strategy shows a very high rate of VS maintenance. The presence of pRes to both NRTIs and NNRTIs and a pre-therapy viraemia > 500 000 copies/mL are associated with an increased risk of VR, highlighting the need for an accurate selection of patients before simplification.
To improve the survival of gastric cancer, neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgery has been a promising treatment protocol. However, non-responders have to suffer from adverse effects and miss the opportunity of other possible treatments. To elucidate the molecular basis of the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy, the gene expression pattern was analyzed by a microarray-based method. Based on our previous retrospective study, we examined the gene expression of twelve patients who underwent S-1 plus oxaliplatin (SOX) neoadjuvant chemotherapy before curative surgery (R0) for stage III gastric cancer. Three tumor tissues without neoadjuvant chemotherapy were collected as the control group. These three groups were compared on functional and pathway enrichment analysis. The results were mainly shown that differentially expressed genes in responders and non-responders were highly enriched for genes involved in cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and NK cell mediated cytotoxicity. Considering the drug sensitivity of oxaliplatin and S-1, microarray analysis significantly demonstrated 3 up-regulated genes and 1 down-regulated gene in DNA damage repair pathway which may play an important role in drug resistance (responders vs. non-responders). Thus, microarray analysis can efficiently evaluate the gene expression after neoadjuvant chemotherapy for gastric cancer, which may better understand tumor chemosensitivity.
Posidonia oceanica is an endemic seagrass in the Mediterranean Sea, where it provides important ecosystem services and sustains a rich and diverse ecosystem. P. oceanica meadows extend from the surface to 40 meters depth. With the aim of boosting research in this iconic species, we generated a comprehensive RNA-Seq data set for P. oceanica by sequencing specimens collected at two depths and two times during the day. With this approach we attempted to capture the transcriptional diversity associated with change in light and other depth-related environmental factors. Using this extensive data set we generated gene predictions and identified an extensive catalogue of potential Simple Sequence Repeats (SSR) markers. The data generated here will open new avenues for the analysis of population genetic features and functional variation in P. oceanica. In total, 79,235 contigs were obtained by the assembly of 70,453,120 paired end reads. 43,711 contigs were successfully annotated. A total of 17,436 SSR were identified within 13,912 contigs.
Genetic variants in miRNAs have attracted more and more attention these years because they are capable of altering miRNA function and/or expression, consequently affecting downstream biological pathways and disease risk. The rs767649 polymorphism, locating in the promoter of miR-155, was recently reported to be able to alter transcriptional activity of miR-155 and relate to lung cancer risk. In this study, we aimed to assess the relationship between rs767649 and cervical cancer (CC) risk. We investigated the association of rs767649 with CC risk in a two-stage case-control study with 1157 cases and 1280 controls. Genotyping was determined with TaqMan allelic discrimination method. The results showed that the rs767649 TT genotype was associated with a significantly reduced risk of CC in both test (549 cases and 603 controls), validation (608 cases and 677 controls) and combined sets [adjusted odds ratio (OR)ï¿½=ï¿½0.67, 95% confidence interval (CI)ï¿½=ï¿½0.51–0.87 for the combined set] compared with the AA/AT genotypes. Moreover, the association was more prominent among patients of ageï¿½>ï¿½49ï¿½years and postmenopausal status (ORï¿½=ï¿½0.56, 95% CIï¿½=ï¿½0.38–0.83, and 0.60, 0.40–0.89, respectively) and patients with clinical stage I and II CC (ORï¿½=ï¿½0.67, 95% CIï¿½=ï¿½0.50–0.91, and 0.60, 0.40–0.92, respectively). Further analyses showed that miR-155 was overexpressed in the CC tissues as compared with normal tissues, suggesting an oncogenic role in CC. Luciferase assay indicated that the transition of A to T allele might lead to miR-155 downregulation at the transcriptional level. In conclusion, rs767649 might be a causal variant for CC susceptibility.
Background: It is interesting to study the consistency of outcomes arising from two genomic platforms: Microarray and RNAseq, which are established on fundamentally different technologies. This topic has been frequently discussed from the prospect of comparing differentially expressed genes (DEGs). In this study, we explore the inter-platform concordance between microarray and RNASeq in their ability to classify samples based on genomic information. We use a set of 7 standard multi-class classifiers and an adaptive ensemble classifier developed around them to predict Chemical Modes of Actions (MOA) of data profiled by microarray and RNASeq platforms from Rat Liver samples exposed to a variety of chemical compounds. We study the concordance between microarray and RNASeq data in various forms, based on classifier's performance between two platforms. Results: Using an ensemble classifier we observe improved prediction performance compared to a set of standard classifiers. We discover a clear concordance between each individual classifier's performances in two genomic platforms. Additionally, we identify a set of important genes those specifies MOAs, by focusing on their impact on the classification and later we find that some of these top genes have direct associations with the presence of toxic compounds in the liver. Conclusion: Overall there appears to be fair amount of concordance between the two platforms as far as classification is concerned. We observe widely different classification performances among individual classifiers, which reflect the unreliability of restricting to a single classifier in the case of high dimensional classification problems. Reviewers: An extended abstract of this research paper was selected for the Camda Satellite Meeting to Ismb 2015 by the Camda Programme Committee. The full research paper then underwent two rounds of Open Peer Review under a responsible Camda Programme Committee member, Lan Hu, PhD (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Digital Biology Center-Cambridge). Open Peer Review was provided by Yiyi Liu and Partha Dey. The Reviewer Comments section shows the full reviews and author responses.
Bupivacaine is one of the most toxic local anesthetics. An increasing number of studies have shown that bupivacaine could induce intracellular oxidative stress and cause cell death. However, the mechanisms underlying its neurotoxicity are still unclear. In this study, we evaluate the neurotoxicity effect and the underlying mechanisms of bupivacaine in SH-SY5Y cells. First, we monitored the intracellular reactive oxygen species content after bupivacaine exposure. We also measured the expression level of PARP-1 via western blotting and Quantitative Real-Time PCR methods. Changes in intracellular NAD+ and adenylate depletion were analyzed. We further assessed cell viability and nuclear morphological changes after bupivacaine treatment. Finally, mitochondrial-associated protein expression was examined to verify the pathways of bupivacaine-induced cell death. In addition, mitochondrial membrane potential was also measured by JC-1 staining of SH-SY5Y cells treated with bupivacaine. Results showed that bupivacaine induced reactive oxygen species production and activate PARP-1 expression and PAR polymer formation in SH-SY5Y cells. Bupivacaine-induced PARP-1 activation was associated with intracellular NAD+ utilization and adenylate depletion. Furthermore, bupivacaine was neurotoxic to cells and this toxicity was mitochondrial-associated protein dependent and involved in changes of mitochondrial membrane potential. Collectively, our results suggested that the PARP-1 dependent programmed cell death parthanatos, which characterized by PARP-1 activation and intracellular NAD+ depletion, was involved in bupivacaine-induced neurotoxicity, and inhibition of PARP-1 attenuated this neuronal injury.
Artificial transcription factors (ATFs) are precision-tailored molecules designed to bind DNA and regulate transcription in a preprogrammed manner. Libraries of ATFs enable the high-throughput screening of gene networks that trigger cell fate decisions or phenotypic changes. We developed a genome-scale library of ATFs that display an engineered interaction domain (ID) to enable cooperative assembly and synergistic gene expression at targeted sites. We used this ATF library to screen for key regulators of the pluripotency network and discovered three combinations of ATFs capable of inducing pluripotency without exogenous expression of Oct4 (POU domain, class 5, TF 1). Cognate site identification, global transcriptional profiling, and identification of ATF binding sites reveal that the ATFs do not directly target Oct4; instead, they target distinct nodes that converge to stimulate the endogenous pluripotency network. This forward genetic approach enables cell type conversions without a priori knowledge of potential key regulators and reveals unanticipated gene network dynamics that drive cell fate choices.
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between plaque severity and the expression of complement factor H (CFH) in an apo E-knockout mouse model of atherosclerosis. An additional objective was to determine the effect of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) on this relationship. Eight-week-old apo E-knockout mice were divided randomly into 2 groups: group A (atherosclerotic model group, n=14), and group B (rosuvastatin-treated group, n=8). Ten age- and genetic background-matched healthy C57BL/6 mice were used as a control group. After 20 weeks of continuous intragastric rosuvastatin administration, aorta samples were taken for H&E and immunohistochemical staining. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed to determine the level of CFH transcription, and western blot analysis was performed to measure CFH protein expression. Immunohistochemical staining showed that CFH was expressed in group A, and this was accompanied by increased mRNA and protein levels and the severity of atherosclerosis. However, none of these changes were observed in the control group. Rosuvastatin upregulated CFH mRNA expression and increased CFH protein levels. The plasma level of cholesterol was higher in group A than that in the control group (P<0.05). Furthermore, serum high-sensitive C-reactive protein and C3a levels decreased significantly in group B compared with those in group A (P<0.05). This study verified exï¿½pression of CFH in atherosclerotic plaques in apo E-knockout mice and shows that rosuvastatin attenuated lesions and stabilized aortic plaques, possibly by increasing the expression of CFH and suppressing inflammation.
However, the mechanisms whereby kisspeptin-related genes regulate sexual differentiation in teleosts are poorly understood. We aimed to study the relationship between the hypothalamus–pituitary–gonad (HPG) axis and sexual differentiation in relation to kisspeptin in the sturgeon Acipenser schrenckii. We performed comparative transcriptomic analysis of the brains of sturgeons treated with KISS1-10 during the gonadal sex-differentiation-sensitive period (170–210ï¿½days post-hatching (dph)) using an Illumina sequencing platform. We also analyzed mRNA expression levels of genes in the HPG axis using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and measured estradiol-17β (E2) and testosterone (T) levels in the brain and gonads using radioimmunological methods. A total of 75,960 and 74,907 unigenes were produced from Kisspeptin-treated and physiological saline-treated fish, respectively, among which 47,891 genes were matched to the non-redundant nr database. Potential genes and their functions were identified by GO (32,435), KEGG (37,619), and COG analyses (18,502). A total of 3169 unigenes were differentially expressed between transcriptomes in KISS1-10- and saline-injected fish, including 300 up-regulated and 2869 down-regulated unigenes. Gene expression levels of KISS1, G protein-coupled receptor-54, GnRH, androgen receptor, estrogen receptor, and Cyp19a in the brain and gonad were significantly affected by KISS1-10 treatment. KISS1-10 injection also significantly increased brain levels of E2 and T, compared with controls. These results support important roles for KISS1 in the regulation of the HPG axis, and in sex differentiation and reproduction in the Amur sturgeon.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Pancreatic cancer is one of the most aggressive human cancer types with a five-year survival less than 7%. Emerging evidence revealed that many genetic alterations in pancreatic cancer target epigenetic regulators. Some of these mutations are driver mutations in cancer development. Several most important mechanisms of epigenetic regulations include DNA methylation, histone modifications (methylation, acetylation, and ubiquitination), chromatin remodeling, and non-coding ribonucleic acids (RNAs). These modifications can alter chromatin structure and promoter accessibility, and thus lead to aberrant gene expression. However, exactly how these alterations affect epigenetic reprogramming in pancreatic cancer cells and in different stages of tumor development is still not clear. This mini-review summarizes the current knowledge of epigenetic alterations in pancreatic cancer development and progression, and discusses the clinical applications of epigenetic regulators as diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets in pancreatic cancer.
We previously demonstrated that halogenated quinone induces DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) in a ROS-dependent manner, which coordinates with downstream repair cascade including nonhomologous end joining, base excision repair, and nucleotide excision repair. However, these error-prone processes may cause the potential risk of genome instability, and current has no information on how faithful repair route, such as homologous recombination (HR), was affected. RAD51 is a key protein in the HR pathway of DSBs repair. Here, we found that tetrachlorobenzoquinone (TCBQ) causes a time-dependent reverse U-shape biphasic trend of RAD51 expression. An increase in the early stage and a following decrease of RAD51 expression were found in both 12.5 and 25 μM TCBQ groups, wherein higher concentration faced a faster response. The upregulated RAD51 in the early phase suggested the attempting to repair TCBQ-induced DNA damage; however, the downregulation of RAD51 in the late phase implicated that the rescue probably be abandoned with severe DNA damage. This phenomenon is a general toxic manner of TCBQ regardless of cell type. Surprisingly, TCBQ showed minimum effect on RAD51 mRNA (or protein) synthesis as well as RAD51 degradation. Specific inhibition of RAD51 by siRNA amplified TCBQ-induced DNA damage and cytotoxicity, while cells with enhanced RAD51 expression resisted TCBQ-induced toxicity. The modulation of RAD51 is correlated with p53 level, which suggests p53 has a role in TCBQ-induced RAD51 clearance. Together, our data suggested that TCBQ increases genome instability and cell death through a unique mechanism of inducing DNA damage and inhibiting DNA repair.
The role of mitochondria in cancer is controversial. Using a genome-wide shRNA screen, we now show that tumours reprogram a network of mitochondrial dynamics operative in neurons, including syntaphilin (SNPH), kinesin KIF5B and GTPase Miro1/2 to localize mitochondria to the cortical cytoskeleton and power the membrane machinery of cell movements. When expressed in tumours, SNPH inhibits the speed and distance travelled by individual mitochondria, suppresses organelle dynamics, and blocks chemotaxis and metastasis, in vivo. Tumour progression in humans is associated with downregulation or loss of SNPH, which correlates with shortened patient survival, increased mitochondrial trafficking to the cortical cytoskeleton, greater membrane dynamics and heightened cell invasion. Therefore, a SNPH network regulates metastatic competence and may provide a therapeutic target in cancer.
Computational Molecular Biology, Bioinformatics and Genomics are the most intriguing sciences to understand the human genome and diseases. These sciences use algorithms to analyze, and predict a hypothesis for the huge collected biological data in gene banks. Sequence alignment is the most important topics in bioinformatics which we are concerned with it in this paper. In comparison of bimolecular sequence (i.e.,DNA, RNA, and protein), regions of sequence similarity indicate functional and structural similarity. As a result, Sequence comparison is the main problem in computational biology, such as evolutionary tree reconstruction, genome analysis, and classification of viruses that belong to specific family of viru+ses. So, it is very important to relate common matched parts between DNA or Protein sequences or to determining ancestors sequences of an offspring before it is used in any process. Due to database was large, parallel smith waterman algorithm (SW) we implemented on Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGA) to decrease execution time of algorithm, Which gives significant reduction of execution time and sequential (SW) Execution time by half for two parallel process and decrease the FPGA utilization by 65%.
We used both morphological and genetic approaches to investigate and to describe a new Mediterranean sponge species of the genus Protosuberites from the estuarine-anchialine Bue Marino Cave of Sardinia (Tyrrhenian Sea). The morphotraits of the specimens were compared versus congeneric species with the strongest affinities, covering the genus geographic range worldwide. Protosuberites mereui sp. nov. is light yellow, thinly encrusting, devoid of any special ectosomal skeleton, with spicular complement of tylostyles of three size classes, single or arranged in bundles/tufts, with round to suboval heads. The new species is characterized by an exclusive diagnostic trait recorded for any cave-dwelling Protosuberites i.e. suboval and basally plated resting bodies with a foraminal aperture ornate by a collar. Resting bodies were found in the basal spongin plate firmly adhering to the substratum singly or in small groups. Also the rare, small tylostyles with a sinuous shaft and a typical mushroom-like head were never recorded in the Western Mediterranean and Atlantic species of the genus. The phylogenetic reconstruction using maximum likelihood (ML) and Bayesian Inference (BI) analyses (COI, 18S rRNA, and 28S rRNA) recovered a robustly supported sister relationship between the Mediterranean P. mereui sp. nov. and Protosuberites sp. 'Panama' from the Eastern Pacific Ocean. The genetic distances based on COI sequences between all compared Protosuberites species were always higher than 2%, a value sufficient to confirm that P. mereui sp. nov. is a distinct species within the genus. Morphological and genetic analyses confirm unanimously P. mereui sp. nov. as a new species. Our results contribute to the assessment of biodiversity in anchialine/estuarine caves and increase data on sponge adaptive strategies in these extreme ecosystems.
Axillary branching is controlled by a very complex mechanism involving various endogenous and environmental factors. Previous studies have shown that Tb1/BRC1 is the point of integration in the network of molecular mechanisms regulating axillary branching in plants. In this study, we cloned the Tb1/BRC1 ortholog, NtBRC1, from Nicotiana tabacum and functionally analyzed its role in the control of axillary branching in tobacco. Overexpression of NtBRC1 resulted in significant retardation of axillary branching, and downregulation of this gene resulted in significant acceleration of axillary branching after decapitation. This indicates a negative role for this gene in the regulation of axillary branching. In-line with previous reports, NtBRC1 was found to be expressed predominantly in axillary buds. Additionally, as expected, expression was decreased 8 h following decapitation, which further confirms its role in the suppression of axillary branching. Furthermore, the expression of NtBRC1 was significantly downregulated by cytokinin, but was not affected by GR24, a synthetic strigolactone. Based on the data collected in the present study, we demonstrate that NtBRC1 negatively regulates axillary branching in tobacco after decapitation and functions downstream of the cytokinin signaling pathway inside axillary buds.
Nevirapine (NVP) is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase-inhibitor, which is associated with severe idiosyncratic skin rash and hepatotoxicity. These adverse drug reactions are believed to be mediated by the formation of epoxides and/or quinone methide formed by oxidative metabolism by P450s and 12-sulfoxyl-NVP formed by sequential 12-hydroxylation and O-sulfonation. Although different GSH-conjugates and corresponding mercapturic acids have been demonstrated previously in vitro and in vivo, the role of the glutathione S-transferases in the inactivation of the different reactive metabolites has not been studied so far. In the present study the activity of 10 recombinant human glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) in the detoxification of the different reactive metabolites of NVP was studied. The results show that GSTP1-1 is a highly active catalyst of GSH-conjugation of the oxidative metabolites of NVP, even at high GSH-concentration. Experiments with trideuterated NVP suggest involvement of a reactive epoxide rather than quinone methide in the formation of the GSH-conjugate formed after oxidative bioactivation. GSH-conjugation of 12-sulfoxyl-NVP forming NVP-12-GSH was only catalyzed by GSTM1-1, GSTA1-1, and GSTA3-3. Although the exact expression levels of these enzymes in the skin is unknown, the relatively low activity of this catalysis makes it unlikely that GSTs can provide significant protection against this metabolite. However, since NVP-12-GSH is specifically formed via the 12-sulfoxyl-NVP, its corresponding urinary mercapturic acid can be considered as a biomarker for recent internal exposure to this protein-reactive sulfate. However, it has to be taken into account that 12-sulfoxyl-NVP is not completely trapped by GSH and that rates of bioinactivation will differ between patients due to variability in expression of GSTM1, GSTA1, and GSTA3.
Aptamers are single-stranded DNA or RNA oligonucleotides that can interact with target molecules through specific three-dimensional structures. The excellent features, such as high specificity and affinity for target proteins, small size, chemical stability, low immunogenicity, facile chemical synthesis, versatility in structural design and engineering, and accessible for site-specific modifications with functional moieties, make aptamers attractive molecules in the fields of clinical diagnostics and biopharmaceutical therapeutics. However, difficulties in purification and structural identification of aptamers remain a major impediment to their broad clinical application. In this mini-review, we present the recently attractive developments regarding the purification and identification of aptamers. We also discuss the advantages, limitations, and prospects for the major methods applied in purifying and identifying aptamers, which could facilitate the application of aptamers.
In this study, the complete mitogenome sequence of the altum angelfish Pterophyllum altum (Pellegrin, 1903) has been sequenced by next-generation sequencing method. The mitogenome consists of 16 495 bp, including 13 protein-coding genes, 22 transfer RNAs and 2 ribosomal RNAs genes. The overall base composition of P. altum is 27.5% for A, 30.3% for C, 15.5% for G, and 26.7% for T, which shows a 92% identity to P. scalare. The complete mitogenome of the P. altum provides essential and important DNA molecular data for further phylogeography and evolutionary analysis for the genus Pterophyllum phylogeny.
Garrulax affinis was a medium-sized bird of Timaliidae, and we got its complete mitochondrial genome by the polymerase chain reaction method (PCR). The genome (17 856 in length), it contained 13 protein-coding genes, 2 rRNA (12S and 16S) genes, 2 tRNA genes, 2 control regions (D-loop). All protein-coding, rRNA, and tRNA genes were similar to other Passeriformes in gene arrangement and composition. In 13 PCGs, 12 were initiated with ATG, only COI was GTG, and stopped by five types of stop codons. We constructed a phylogenetic tree based on 13 PCGs of G. affinis and other nine Timaliidae species, found that the species belong to the same Passeriformes all cluster together.
Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) is one of the most common genetic disorders and is caused by mutations in the NF1 gene. NF1 gene mutational analysis presents a considerable challenge because of its large size, existence of highly homologous pseudogenes located throughout the human genome, absence of mutational hotspots, and diversity of mutations types, including deep intronic splicing mutations. We aimed to evaluate the use of hybridization capture-based next-generation sequencing to screen coding and noncoding NF1 regions. Hybridization capture-based next-generation sequencing, with genomic DNA as starting material, was used to sequence the whole NF1 gene (exons and introns) from 11 unrelated individuals and 1 relative, who all had NF1. All of them met the NF1 clinical diagnostic criteria. We showed a mutation detection rate of 91% (10 out of 11). We identified eight recurrent and two novel mutations, which were all confirmed by Sanger methodology. In the Sanger sequencing confirmation, we also included another three relatives with NF1. Splicing alterations accounted for 50% of the mutations. One of them was caused by a deep intronic mutation (c.1260 + 1604A > G). Frameshift truncation and missense mutations corresponded to 30% and 20% of the pathogenic variants, respectively. In conclusion, we show the use of a simple and fast approach to screen, at once, the entire NF1 gene (exons and introns) for different types of pathogenic variations, including the deep intronic splicing mutations.
Sequence analysis approach is an exciting choice for exploring those mysterious facts from biological data at genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic level. Development of bioinformatics tools is the most challenging task for analyzing these biological data at above three levels. In this communication, an attempt has been made to develop a bioinformatics program “Biological Data Analysis Program (BDAP)” having the ability to analyze the DNA/RNA/protein sequence data at molecular level. It also includes the links of various online databases, tools, search engines and many of the prestigious journals. The coding of the program has been done in Perl language. BDAP is freely available at https://sites.google.com/site/dwivediplanet/bdapunder the terms and conditions of GNU General Public License.
Heat shock transcription factors (HSFs) are mainly involved in the activation of genes in response to heat stress as well as other abiotic and biotic stresses. The growth, development, reproduction, and yield of strawberry are strongly limited by extreme temperatures and droughts. In this study, we used Illumina sequencing and obtained transcriptome data set from Fragaria × ananassa Duchessne cv. Toyonoka. Six contigs and three unigenes were confirmed to encode HSF proteins (FaTHSFs). Subsequently, we characterized the biological functions of two particularly selected unigenes, FaTHSFA2a and FaTHSFB1a, which were classified into class A2 and B HSFs, respectively. Expression assays revealed that FaTHSFA2a and FaTHSFB1a expression was induced by heat shock and correlated well with elevated ambient temperatures. Overexpression of FaTHSFA2a and FaTHSFB1a resulted in the activation of their downstream stress-associated genes, and notably enhanced the thermotolerance of transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Besides, both FaTHSFA2a and FaTHSFB1a fusion proteins localized in the nucleus, indicating their similar subcellular distributions as transcription factors. Our yeast one-hybrid assay suggested that FaTHSFA2a has trans-activation activity, whereas FaTHSFB1a expresses trans-repression function. Altogether, our annotated transcriptome sequences provide a beneficial resource for identifying most genes expressed in octoploid strawberry. Furthermore, HSF studies revealed the possible insights into the molecular mechanisms of thermotolerance, thus rendering valuable molecular breeding to improve the tolerance of strawberry in response to high-temperature stress.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
An important goal of synthetic biology involves the extension and standardization of novel biological elements for applications in medicine and biotechnology. Transcriptional interference, occurring in sets of convergent promoters, offers a promising mechanism for building elements for the design of tunable gene regulation. Here, we investigate the transcriptional interference mechanisms of antisense roadblock and RNA polymerase traffic in a set of convergent promoters as novel modules for synthetic biology. We show examples of elements, including antisense roadblock, relative promoter strengths, interpromoter distance, and sequence content that can be tuned to give rise to repressive as well as cooperative behaviors, therefore resulting in distinct gene expression patterns. Our approach will be useful toward engineering new biological devices and will bring new insights to naturally occurring cis-antisense systems. Therefore, we are reporting a new biological tool that can be used for synthetic biology.
Copyright 2016 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science; all rights reserved.Ski2-Ski3-Ski8 (Ski) is a helicase complex functioning with the RNA-degrading exosome to mediate the 3'-5' messenger RNA (mRNA) decay in turnover and quality-control pathways.We report that the Ski complex directly associates with 80S ribosomes presenting a short mRNA 3' overhang.We determined the structure of an endogenous ribosome-Ski complex using cryo-electron microscopy (EM) with a local resolution of the Ski complex ranging from 4 angstroms (Å) in the core to about 10 Å for intrinsically flexible regions. Ribosome binding displaces the autoinhibitory domain of the Ski2 helicase, positioning it in an open conformation near the ribosomal mRNA entry tunnel.We observe that the mRNA 3' overhang is threaded directly from the small ribosomal subunit to the helicase channel of Ski2, primed for ongoing exosome-mediated 3'-5' degradation.
HIV reverse transcriptase plays a central role in viral replication and requires coordination of both polymerase and RNaseH activities. Although this coordination is crucial in viral replication, whether a DNA/RNA hybrid can simultaneously engage both active sites has yet to be determined as structural and kinetic analyses have provided contradictory results. Single nucleotide incorporation and RNase H cleavage were examined using presteady-state kinetics with global data analysis. The results revealed three interconverting reverse transcriptase- DNA/RNA species; 43% were active for both sites simultaneously, 27% showed only polymerase activity, and the remaining 30% were nonproductive. Our data clearly demonstrated that the DNA/RNA hybrid could contact both active sites simultaneously, although the single nucleotide incorporation (105 s-1) was~5-fold faster than the cleavage (23 s-1). By using a series of primers with different lengths, we found that a string of at least 4-6 nucleotides downstream of the cleaving site was required for efficient RNA cleavage. This was corroborated by our observations that during processive nucleotide incorporation, sequential rounds of RNA cleavage occurred each time after~6 nucleotides were incorporated. More importantly, during processive primer extension, pyrophosphate (PPi) release was ratelimiting so that the average rate of nucleotide incorporation (~28 s-1) was comparable with that of net RNA cleavage (~27 nucleotides(s)). Although polymerization is efficient and processive, RNase H is inefficient and periodic. This combination allows the two catalytic centers of HIVRT to work simultaneously at similar speeds without being tightly coupled.
A palindrome is a string of the form S = A1 A2 or S = A1 aA2, where A1 and A2 are substrings of S and the reverse of A2 exactly matches with A1. DNA palindromes show direct influence on tumerogenesis due to the formation of DNA palindromes at microRNA genes, which involve in tumor development. Furthermore, RNA palindromes play a crucial role in genomic instability and gene amplification in some human cancers. Therefore, it is important to develop effective approaches to identify and characterize biological approximate palindromes. In this paper, we developed a simple algorithm to find all the exact and approximate palindromes up to k errors (k is specified by the user) for the two different types of RNA sequence data, i.e. mRNA sequences of fusion genes and human microRNAs (miRNAs). We confirmed that the palindromes in RNA sequences are A-U rich. According to the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, it was found that miRNA has a frequency distribution of palindromes different from the fusion genes' mRNAs. The proposed algorithm is easy to implement, which provides an effective tool for investigating the relationship between palindromes and cancer biology.
Background: In bacteria, transcription units can be insulated by placing a terminator in front of a promoter. In this way promoter leakage due to the read-through from an upstream gene or RNA polymerase unspecific binding to the DNA is, in principle, removed. Differently from bacterial terminators, yeast S. cerevisiae terminators contain a hexamer sequence, the efficiency element, that strongly resembles the eukaryotic TATA box i.e. the promoter sequence recognized and bound by RNA polymerase II. Results: By placing different yeast terminators (natural and synthetic) in front of the CYC1 yeast constitutive promoter stripped of every upstream activating sequences and TATA boxes, we verified that the efficiency element is able to bind RNA polymerase II, hence working as a TATA box. Moreover, terminators put in front of strong and medium-strength constitutive yeast promoters cause a non-negligible decrease in the promoter transcriptional activity. Conclusions: Our data suggests that RNA polymerase II molecules upon binding the insulator efficiency element interfere with protein expression by competing either with activator proteins at the promoter enhancers or other RNA polymerase II molecules targeting the TATA box. Hence, it seems preferable to avoid the insulation of non-weak promoters when building synthetic gene circuit in yeast S. cerevisiae.
Numerous genomic and clinical cancer data have been generated and available through The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). However, these datasets are difficult to access and interpret. Most of the existing tools provide resources for exploring, visualizing, and analyzing multidimensional genomics data for all cancer samples. Here we present an integrative pan-cancer analysis of DNA copy number, messenger RNA and microRNA (miRNA) expression, DNA methylation, protein expression and clinical characteristics for studying gene regulation and expression based survival analysis in paired tumor and normal samples. Clinical researchers have a simple way to evaluate the TCGA data for their genes or candidate biomarkers of interest.
Citrus sudden death-associated virus (CSDaV) is a monopartite positive-sense single-stranded RNA virus that was suggested to be associated with citrus sudden death (CSD) disease in Brazil. Here, we report the first study of the genetic structure and molecular variability among 31 CSDaV isolates collected from both symptomatic and asymptomatic trees in CSD-affected areas. Analyses of partial nucleotide sequences of five domains of the CSDaV genomic RNA, including those encoding for the methyltransferase, the multi-domain region (MDR), the helicase, the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and the coat protein, showed that the MDR coding region was the most diverse region assessed here, and a possible association between this region and virus adaption to different host or plant tissues is considered. Overall, the nucleotide diversity (π) was low for CSDaV isolates, but the phylogenetic analyses revealed the predominance of two main groups, one of which showed a higher association with CSD-symptomatic plants. Isolates obtained from CSD-symptomatic plants, compared to those obtained from asymptomatic plants, showed higher nucleotide diversity, nonsynonymous and synonymous substitution rates and number of amino acid changes on the coding regions located closer to the 5’ end region of the genomic RNA. This work provides new insights into the genetic diversity of the CSDaV, giving support for further epidemiological studies.
0 Unported License.The capacity to introduce exogenous proteins and express (or down-regulate) specific genes in plants provides a powerful tool for fundamental research as well as new applications in the field of plant biotechnology. Viable methods that currently exist for protein or gene transfer into plant cells, namely Agrobacterium and microprojectile bombardment, have disadvantages of low transformation frequency, limited host range, or a high cost of equipment and microcarriers. The following protocol outlines a simple and versatile method, which employs rationally-designed peptides as delivery agents for a variety of nucleic acid- and protein-based cargoes into plants. Peptides are selected as tools for development of the system due to their biodegradability, reduced size, diverse and tunable properties as well as the ability to gain intracellular/organellar access. The preparation, characterization and application of optimized formulations for each type of the wide range of delivered cargoes (plasmid DNA, double-stranded DNA or RNA, and protein) are described. Critical steps within the protocol, possible modifications and existing limitations of the method are also discussed.
A key driver of synthetic biology is the development of designable genetic parts with predictable behaviors that can be quickly implemented in complex genetic systems. However, the intrinsic complexity of gene regulation can make the rational design of genetic parts challenging. This challenge is apparent in the design of antisense RNA (asRNA) regulators. Though asRNAs are well-known regulators, the literature governing their design is conflicting and leaves the synthetic biology community without clear asRNA design rules. The goal of this study is to perform a comprehensive experimental characterization and statistical analysis of 121 unique asRNA regulators in order to resolve the conflicts that currently exist in the literature. asRNAs usually consist of two regions, the Hfq binding site and the target binding region (TBR). First, the behaviors of several high-performing Hfq binding sites were compared, in terms of their ability to improve repression efficiencies and their orthogonality. Next, a large-scale analysis of TBR design parameters identified asRNA length, the thermodynamics of asRNA-mRNA complex formation, and the percent of target mismatch as key parameters for TBR design. These parameters were used to develop simple asRNA design rules. Finally, these design rules were applied to construct both a simple and a complex genetic circuit containing different asRNAs, and predictable behavior was observed in both circuits. The results presented in this study will drive synthetic biology forward by providing useful design guidelines for the construction of asRNA regulators with predictable behaviors.
PIWI-interacting RNAs are a class of small RNA (sRNA) distinct from microRNA (miRNA) in sequence length and conservation structure. The recently report indicated that human piRNAs not only expressed in germline but also detected in somatic tissues. They interact with piwi-clade Argonauts (Ago), as well as sequences complement with transposons and target genes to effect epigenetic and post-Transcriptional regulation. Additionally, piRNAs are involved in DNA methylation and cancer development. Investigation into the mechanism of piRNAs is an important and rapidly growing issue of research. In this study, we constructed an integrated database, piRNAtarget, for studying the functionality of piRNA and its targets. This database includes a variety of information, such as annotations, sequences, parental genes, targets, expression, mutation and methylation profiles in human piRNAs. We believe that piRNAtarget will contribute to a better understanding of the human piRNA functions. piRNAtarget is freely accessible and available at: http://120.108.102.11/~sophia/piRNAtarget.
E. coli lysate efficiently catalyzes acetyl phosphate-driven ATP regeneration in several important biotechnological applications. The utility of this ATP recycling strategy in enzyme-catalyzed chemical synthesis is illustrated through the conversion of uridine to UMP by the lysate from recombinant overexpression of uridine kinase with the E. coli. The UMP is further transformed into UTP through sequential phosphorylations by kinases naturally present in the lysate, in high yield. Cytidine and 5-fluorouridine also give the corresponding NMPs and NTPs with this system. Cell-free protein expression with a processed extract of lysate also proceeds readily when, instead of adding the required NTPs, all four are produced in situ from the NMPs, using acetyl phosphate and relying on endogenous kinase activity. Similarly, dNMPs can be used to produce the dNTPs necessary for DNA synthesis in PCR. These cheap alternative protocols showcase the potential of acetyl phosphate and ATP recycling with readily available cell lysate.
Previous measurements of the rates of polymerization and pyrophosphate release with DNA templates showed that pyrophosphate (PPi) dissociation was fast after nucleotide incorporation so that it did not contribute to enzyme specificity (kcat/ Km). Here, kinetic parameters governing nucleotide incorporation and PPi release were determined using an RNA template. Compared with a DNA template of the same sequence, the rate of chemistry increased by up to 10-fold (250 versus 24 s-1), whereas the rate of PPi release decreased to approximately 58 s-1 so that PPi release became the rate-limiting step. During processive nucleotide incorporation, the first nucleotide (TTP) was incorporated at a fast rate (152 s-1), whereas the rates of incorporation of remaining nucleotides (CGTCG) were much slower with an average rate of 24 s-1, suggesting that sequential incorporation events were limited by the relatively slow PPi release step. The accompanying paper shows that slow PPi release allows polymerization and RNase H to occur at comparable rates. Although PPi release is the rate-determining step, it is not the specificity-determining step for correct incorporation based on our current estimates of the rate of reversal of the chemistry step (3 s-1). In contrast, during misincorporation, PPi release became extremely slow, which we estimated to be0.002 s-1. These studies establish the mechanistic basis for DNA polymerase fidelity during reverse transcription and provide a free energy profile. We correct previous underestimates of discrimination by including the slow PPi release step. Our current estimate of 2.4 × 106 is >20-fold greater than estimated previously.
Background: Switchgrass, a warm-season perennial grass studied as a potential dedicated biofuel feedstock, is classified into two main taxa - lowland and upland ecotypes - that differ in morphology and habitat of adaptation. But there is limited information on their inherent molecular variations. Results: Transcriptome analysis by RNA-sequencing (RNA-Seq) was conducted for lowland and upland ecotypes to document their gene expression variations. Mapping of transcriptome to the reference genome (Panicum virgatum v1.1) revealed that the lowland and upland ecotypes differ substantially in sets of genes transcribed as well as levels of expression. Differential gene expression analysis exhibited that transcripts related to photosynthesis efficiency and development and photosystem reaction center subunits were upregulated in lowlands compared to upland genotype. On the other hand, catalase isozymes, helix-loop-helix, late embryogenesis abundant group I, photosulfokinases, and S-adenosyl methionine synthase gene transcripts were upregulated in the upland compared to the lowlands. At ≥100x coverage and ≥5% minor allele frequency, a total of 25,894 and 16,979 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers were discovered for VS16 (upland ecotype) and K5 (lowland ecotype) against the reference genome. The allele combination of the SNPs revealed that the transition mutations are more prevalent than the transversion mutations. Conclusions: The gene ontology (GO) analysis of the transcriptome indicated lowland ecotype had significantly higher representation for cellular components associated with photosynthesis machinery controlling carbon fixation. In addition, using the transcriptome data, SNP markers were detected, which were distributed throughout the genome. The differentially expressed genes and SNP markers detected in this study would be useful resources for traits mapping and gene transfer across ecotypes in switchgrass breeding for increased biomass yield for biofuel conversion.
The proceedings contain 67 papers. The topics discussed include: an ensemble based in silico prediction of saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins under mitochondrion organization; identifying protein complexes method based on time-sequenced association and ant colony clustering in dynamic PPI networks; GReMLIN: a graph mining strategy to infer protein-ligand interaction patterns; statistical principle-based approach for detecting miRNA-target gene interaction articles; ENSPART: an ensemble framework based on data partitioning for DNA motif analysis; identification and analysis of palindromes for RNA sequences; using deep learning with position specific scoring matrices to identify efflux proteins in membrane and transport proteins; a self-confined single-cell loading platform combining PDMS mesh and patterned cytop for noninvasive studies of single cell secretions; and detecting cell growth and drug response in heterogeneous populations: a dynamic imaging approach.
Acetogenic bacteria have the potential to convert single carbon gases (CO and CO2) into a range of bulk chemicals and fuels. Realization of their full potential is being impeded by the absence of effective genetic tools for high throughput genome modification. Here we report the development of a highly efficient CRISPR/Cas9 system for rapid genome editing of Clostridium ljungdahlii, a paradigm for the commercial production of ethanol from synthesis gas. Following the experimental selection of two promoters (Pthl and ParaE) for expression of cas9 and the requisite single guide RNA (sgRNA), the efficiency of system was tested by making precise deletions of four genes, pta, adhE1, ctf and pyrE. Deletion efficiencies were 100%, >75%, 100% and >50%, respectively. The system overcomes the deficiencies of currently available tools (more rapid, no added antibiotic resistance gene, scarless and minimal polar effects) and will find utility in other acetogens, including the pathogen Clostridium difficile.
Bacterial persister cells avoid antibiotic-induced death by entering a physiologically dormant state and are considered a major cause of antibiotic treatment failure and relapsing infections. Such dormant cells form stochastically, but also in response to environmental cues, by various pathways that are usually controlled by the second messenger (p)ppGpp. For example, toxin-antitoxin modules have been shown to play a major role in persister formation in many model systems. More generally, the diversity of molecular mechanisms driving persister formation is increasingly recognized as the cause of physiological heterogeneity that underlies collective multistress and multidrug tolerance of persister subpopulations. In this Review, we summarize the current state of the field and highlight recent findings, with a focus on the molecular basis of persister formation and heterogeneity.
Traditionally, N- or C-terminal fused tags are employed, which, however, can perturb protein function. Unnatural amino acids (UAAs) harboring small reactive handles can be site-specifically incorporated into proteins, thus serving as a potential alternative for conventional protein tags. Here, we introduce Click-MS, which combines the power of site-specific UAA incorporation, bioorthogonal chemistry, and quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics to specifically enrich a single protein of interest from crude mammalian cell extracts. By genetic encoding of p-azido-l-phenylalanine, the protein of interest can be selectively captured using copper-free click chemistry. We use Click-MS to enrich proteins that function in different cellular compartments, and we identify protein-protein interactions, showing the great potential of Click-MS for interaction proteomics workflows.
Copyright. Published 2016 by the American Chemical Society. Escherichia coli (E. coli) has played a pivotal role in the development of genetics and molecular biology as scientific fields. It is therefore not surprising that synthetic biology (SB) was built upon E. coli and continues to dominate the field. However, scientific capabilities have advanced from simple gene mutations to the insertion of rationally designed, complex synthetic circuits and creation of entirely synthetic genomes. The point is rapidly approaching where E. coli is no longer an adequate host for the increasingly sophisticated genetic designs of SB. It is time to develop the next generation of SB chassis; robust organisms that can provide the advanced physiology novel synthetic circuits will require to move SB from the laboratory into fieldable technologies. This can be accomplished by developing chassis-specific genetic toolkits that are as extensive as those for E. coli. However, the holy grail of SB would be the development of a universal toolkit that can be ported into any chassis. This viewpoint article underscores the need for new bacterial chassis, as well as discusses some of the important considerations in their selection. It also highlights a few examples of robust, tractable bacterial species that can meet the demands of tomorrow’s state-of-the-art in SB. Significant advances have been made in the first 15 years since this field has emerged. However, the advances over the next 15 years will occur not in laboratory organisms, but in fieldable species where the potential of SB can be fully realized in game changing technology.
We have previously shown that Δ2-Troglitazone (Δ2-TGZ) displayed anticancer effects on breast cancer cell lines grown in low serum conditions (1% fetal calf serum (FCS)). The present study was performed in order to characterize the effects of Δ2-TGZ in high serum containing medium and to determine if starvation could influence the response of breast cancer cells to this compound, keeping in mind the potential interest for breast cancer therapy. We observed that in high serum conditions (10% FCS), a 48 h treatment with Δ2-TGZ induced a decrease in cell numbers in MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 breast cancer cell lines. The IC50 values were higher than in low serum conditions. Furthermore, in contrast to our previous results obtained in 1% FCS conditions, we observed that in 10% FCS-containing medium, MCF-7 cells were more sensitive to Δ2-TGZ than MDA-MB-231 cells. Δ2-TGZ also induced endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress mainly in MDA-MB-231 cells. Besides, in high serum conditions, Δ2-TGZ induced a G0/G1 cell cycle arrest, an inhibition of BrdU incorporation and a reduced level of cyclin D1. We observed a limited cleavage of PARP and a limited proportion of cells in sub-G1 phase. Thus, in high serum conditions, Δ2-TGZ displayed cytostatic effects rather than apoptosis as previously reported in 1% FCS-containing medium. Our results are in accordance with studies suggesting that serum starvation could potentiate the action of diverse anti-cancer agents.
The roles of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) G-quadruplex structures in gene expression and telomere maintenance have been well characterized. Recent results suggest that such structures could also play pivotal roles in ribonucleic acid (RNA) biology, such as splicing or translation regulation. However, it has been difficult to show that RNA G-quadruplexes (G4s) exist in specific long RNA sequences, such as precursor messenger RNA, in a functional or cellular context. Most current methods for identifying G4s involve the use of short, purified RNA sequences in vitro, in the absence of competition with secondary structures or protein binding. Therefore, novel methods need to be developed to allow the characterization of G4s in long functional RNAs and in a cellular context. This need has in part been met by our recent development of a method based on a comparison of RNA and 7-deaza-RNA that provides a test for identifying RNA G4s in such conditions.
The central dogma ofmolecular biology states that DNA makes RNA makes protein. Discoveries over the last quarter of a century found that the process of DNA transcription into RNA gives rise to a diverse array of functional RNA species, including genes that code for protein and noncoding RNAs. For decades, the focus has been on understanding how protein-coding genes are regulated to influence protein expression. However, with the completion of the Human Genome Project and follow-up ENCODE data, it is now appreciated that only 2-3% of the genome codes for protein-coding gene exons and that the bulk of the transcribed genome, apart from ribosomal RNAs, is at the level of noncoding RNA genes. In this article, we focus on the biogenesis and regulation of a distinct class of noncoding RNA molecules termed long, noncoding RNAs in the context of the immune system.
In many eukaryotes, siRNAs bound to Argonaute proteins guide chromatin-modifying enzymes to complementary loci, resulting in transcriptional gene silencing. Multiple lines of evidence indicate that siRNAs base-pair with longer RNAs produced at target loci, but the possibility that siRNAs base-pair directly with DNA remains an attractive hypothesis. In a recent study, Shimada et al. (pp. 2571–2580) conducted experiments that address these alternative hypotheses, yielding additional evidence that fission yeast siRNA–Argonaute silencing complexes are recruited to target loci exclusively via interactions with nascent transcripts.
Genome integrity relies on precise coordination between DNA replication and chromosome segregation. Whereas replication stress attracted much attention, the consequences of mitotic perturbations for genome integrity are less understood. Here, we knockdown 47 validated mitotic regulators to show that a broad spectrum of mitotic errors correlates with increased DNA breakage in daughter cells. Unexpectedly, we find that only a subset of these correlations are functionally linked. We identify the genuine mitosis-born DNA damage events and sub-classify them according to penetrance of the observed phenotypes. To demonstrate the potential of this resource, we show that DNA breakage after cytokinesis failure is preceded by replication stress, which mounts during consecutive cell cycles and coincides with decreased proliferation. Together, our results provide a resource to gauge the magnitude and dynamics of DNA breakage associated with mitotic aberrations and suggest that replication stress might limit propagation of cells with abnormal karyotypes.
Recently, the crystal structure of apo Pol I gave unprecedented insight into its molecular architecture. Here, we present three cryo-EM structures of elongating Pol I, two at 4.0 Å and one at 4.6 Å resolution, and a Pol I open complex at 3.8 Å resolution. Two modules in Pol I mediate the narrowing of the DNA-binding cleft by closing the clamp domain. The DNA is bound by the clamp head and by the protrusion domain, allowing visualization of the upstream and downstream DNA duplexes in one of the elongation complexes. During formation of the Pol I elongation complex, the bridge helix progressively folds, while the A12.2 C-terminal domain is displaced from the active site. Our results reveal the conformational changes associated with elongation complex formation and provide additional insight into the Pol I transcription cycle.
To better understand BIR, we performed a targeted siRNA screen for genes whose depletion inhibited G1 to S phase progression when oncogenic cyclin E was overexpressed. RAD52, a gene dispensable for normal development in mice, was among the top hits. In cells in which fork collapse was induced by oncogenes or chemicals, the Rad52 protein localized to DRS foci. Depletion of Rad52 by siRNA or knockout of the gene by CRISPR/Cas9 compromised restart of collapsed forks and led to DNA damage in cells experiencing DRS. Furthermore, in cancer-prone, heterozygous APC mutant mice, homozygous deletion of the Rad52 gene suppressed tumor growth and prolonged lifespan. We therefore propose that mammalian RAD52 facilitates repair of collapsed DNA replication forks in cancer cells.
C2c1 is a newly identified guide RNA-mediated type V-B CRISPR-Cas endonuclease that site-specifically targets and cleaves both strands of target DNA. We have determined crystal structures of Alicyclobacillus acidoterrestris C2c1 (AacC2c1) bound to sgRNA as a binary complex and to target DNAs as ternary complexes, thereby capturing catalytically competent conformations of AacC2c1 with both target and non-target DNA strands independently positioned within a single RuvC catalytic pocket. Moreover, C2c1-mediated cleavage results in a staggered seven-nucleotide break of target DNA. crRNA adopts a pre-ordered five-nucleotide A-form seed sequence in the binary complex, with release of an inserted tryptophan, facilitating zippering up of 20-bp guide RNA:target DNA heteroduplex on ternary complex formation. Notably, the PAM-interacting cleft adopts a “locked” conformation on ternary complex formation. Structural comparison of C2c1 ternary complexes with their Cas9 and Cpf1 counterparts highlights the diverse mechanisms adopted by these distinct CRISPR-Cas systems, thereby broadening and enhancing their applicability as genome editing tools.
DNA replication is essential for cellular proliferation. If improperly controlled it can constitute a major source of genome instability, frequently associated with cancer and aging. POLD1 is the catalytic subunit and POLD3 is an accessory subunit of the replicative Polδ polymerase, which also functions in DNA repair, as well as the translesion synthesis polymerase Polζ, whose catalytic subunit is REV3L. In cells depleted of POLD1 or POLD3 we found a differential but general increase in genome instability as manifested by DNA breaks, S-phase progression impairment and chromosome abnormalities. Importantly, we showed that both proteins are needed to maintain the proper amount of active replication origins and that POLD3-depletion causes anaphase bridges accumulation. In addition, POLD3-associated DNA damage showed to be dependent on RNA-DNA hybrids pointing toward an additional and specific role of this subunit in genome stability. Interestingly, a similar increase in RNA-DNA hybrids-dependent genome instability was observed in REV3L-depleted cells. Our findings demonstrate a key role of POLD1 and POLD3 in genome stability and S-phase progression revealing RNA-DNA hybrids-dependent effects for POLD3 that might be partly due to its Polζ interaction.
Homologous recombination (HR) is necessary to counteract DNA replication stress. Common fragile site (CFS) loci are particularly sensitive to replication stress and undergo pathological rearrangements in tumors. At these loci, replication stress frequently activates DNA repair synthesis in mitosis. This mitotic DNA synthesis, termed MiDAS, requires the MUS81-EME1 endonuclease and a non-catalytic subunit of the Pol-delta complex, POLD3. Here, we examine the contribution of HR factors in promoting MiDAS in human cells. We report that RAD51 and BRCA2 are dispensable for MiDAS but are required to counteract replication stress at CFS loci during S-phase. In contrast, MiDAS is RAD52 dependent, and RAD52 is required for the timely recruitment of MUS81 and POLD3 to CFSs in early mitosis. Our results provide further mechanistic insight into MiDAS and define a specific function for human RAD52. Furthermore, selective inhibition of MiDAS may comprise a potential therapeutic strategy to sensitize cancer cells undergoing replicative stress.
The histone-like nucleoid structuring (H-NS) protein is a major component of the folded chromosome in Escherichia coli and related bacteria. Functions attributed to H-NS include management of genome evolution, DNA condensation, and transcription. The wide-ranging influence of H-NS is remarkable given the simplicity of the protein, a small peptide, possessing rudimentary determinants for self-association, hetero-oligomerisation and DNA binding. In this review, I will discuss our understanding of H-NS with a focus on these structural elements. In particular, I will consider how these interaction surfaces allow H-NS to exert its different effects.
It has been proposed that cohesin is recruited to specific genomic locations from distal loading sites by an unknown mechanism, which depends on transcription, and it has been speculated that cohesin movements along DNA could create three-dimensional genomic organization by loop extrusion. However, whether cohesin can translocate along DNA is unknown. Here, we used single-molecule imaging to show that cohesin can diffuse rapidly on DNA in a manner consistent with topological entrapment and can pass over some DNA-bound proteins and nucleosomes but is constrained in its movement by transcription and DNA-bound CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF). These results indicate that cohesin can be positioned in the genome by moving along DNA, that transcription can provide directionality to these movements, that CTCF functions as a boundary element for moving cohesin, and they are consistent with the hypothesis that cohesin spatially organizes the genome via loop extrusion.
The recent developments in high-throughput DNA sequencing allowed major advances in organelle genomics. Assembly of mitochondrial genomes (hereafter mitogenomes) in higher plants however remains a challenge due to their large size and the presence of plastid-derived regions and repetitive sequences. In this study, we reconstructed the first mitogenome of Oleaceae using a herbarium specimen of the extinct genus Hesperelaea collected in 1875. Paired-end reads produced with the HiSeq technology (shotgun) in a previous study were re-used. With an approach combining reference-guided and de novo assembly, we obtained a circular molecule of 658,522 bp with a mean coverage depth of 35 ×. We found one large repeat (ca. 8 kb) and annotated 46 protein-coding genes, 3 rRNA genes and 19 tRNA genes. A phylogeny of Lamiales mitogenomes confirms Oleaceae as sister to a group comprising Lamiaceae, Phyrmaceae and Gesneriaceae. The Hesperelaea mitogenome has lower rates of synonymous and non-synonymous substitution compared to Nicotiana tabacum than other available mitogenomes of Lamiales. To conclude, we show that mitogenome reconstruction in higher plants is possible with shotgun data, even from poorly preserved DNA extracted from old specimens. This approach offers new perspectives to reconstruct plant phylogenies from mitochondrial markers, and to develop functional mitogenomics in Oleaceae.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are vital for many biological processes and have been regarded as cancer biomarkers. Specific and sensitive detection of miRNAs is essential for cancer diagnosis and therapy. Herein, a split recognition mode combined with cascade signal amplification strategy is developed for highly specific and sensitive detection of miRNA. The split recognition mode possesses two specific recognition processes, which are based on toehold-mediated strand displacement reaction (TSDR) and direct hybridization reaction. Two recognition probes, hairpin probe (HP) with overhanging toehold domain and assistant probe (AP), are specially designed. Firstly, the toehold domain of HP and AP recognize part of miRNA simultaneously, accompanied with TSDR to unfold the HP and form the stable DNA Y-shaped junction structure (YJS). Then, the AP in YJS can further act as primer to initiate strand displacement amplification, releasing numerous trigger sequences. Finally, the trigger sequences hybridize with padlock DNA to initiate circular rolling circle amplification and generate enhanced fluorescence responses. In this strategy, the dual recognition effect of split recognition mode guarantees the excellent selectivity to discriminate let-7b from high-homology sequences. Furthermore, the high amplification efficiency of cascade signal amplification guarantees a high sensitivity with the detection limit of 3.2 pM and the concentration of let-7b in total RNA sample extracted from Hela cells is determined. These results indicate our strategy will be a promising miRNA detection strategy in clinical diagnosis and disease treatment.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Many essential cellular processes, such as gene control, employ elaborate mechanisms involving the coordination of large, multi-component molecular assemblies. Few structural biology tools presently have the combined spatial-temporal resolution and molecular specificity required to capture the movement, conformational changes, and subunit association-dissociation kinetics, three fundamental elements of how such intricate molecular machines work. Here, we report a 3D single-molecule super-resolution imaging study using modulation interferometry and phase-sensitive detection that achieves <2 nm axial localization precision, well below the few-nanometer-sized individual protein components. To illustrate the capability of this technique in probing the dynamics of complex macromolecular machines, we visualize the movement of individual multi-subunit E. coli RNA polymerases through the complete transcription cycle, dissect the kinetics of the initiation-elongation transition, and determine the fate of σ70 initiation factors during promoter escape. Modulation interferometry sets the stage for single-molecule studies of several hitherto difficult-to-investigate multi-molecular transactions that underlie genome regulation.
The Rev protein regulates HIV-1 gene expression. Small ligands that bind to the Rev response element (RRE) RNA would inhibit Rev function and suppress HIV-1 replication. A novel ratiometric fluorescence assay was applied in the present study to monitor ligand-RNA interactions by using red-emitting CdTe quantum dots (QDs) coated with silica as a reference. A small fluorescence ligand, ICR 191, was found to interact with RRE at the Rev binding site and compete with the Rev peptide. After adding red-emitting QDs to the interaction system, it was observed that ICR 191 did not fluoresce upon the addition of RRE, and fluorescence recovered when ICR 191 was displaced by a Rev model peptide, whereas the fluorescence of QDs remained constant. Furthermore, variations in the fluorescence ratios between ICR 191 and QDs were exploited to characterize the interactions of Rev with two known antagonists, neomycin B and tobramycin, by using RRE RNA with ICR 191 as a fluorescence indicator. Together, our results demonstrated that ratiometric fluorescence-based nanotechnology applications can be used for ligand−RNA interaction assays. This ICR 191-RRE RNA interaction assay can potentially be developed to build a screening model for assessing antagonists of the Rev binding element in RRE.
Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.The p68 DEAD box helicases comprise a widely conserved protein family involved in a large range of biological processes including transcription, splicing and translation. The genome of the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophile encodes two p68-like helicases, Drh1p and Lia2p.We show that DRH1 is essential for growth and completion of development. In growing cells, Drh1p is excluded from the nucleus and accumulates near cortical basal bodies. In contrast, during sexual reproduction, this protein localizes to meiotic micronuclei, initially in punctate foci in regions where centromeres and telomeres are known to reside and later in post-zygotic differentiating somatic macronuclei. Differentiation of the macronuclear genome involves extensive DNA rearrangements including fragmentation of the five pairs of germlinederived chromosomes into 180 chromosomal sub-fragments that are stabilized by de novo telomere deletion. In addition, thousands of internal eliminated sequences (IESs) are excised from loci dispersed throughout the genome. Strains with DRH1 deleted from the germline nuclei, which do not express the protein during post-zygotic development, fail to fragment the developing macronuclear chromosomes. IES excision still occurs in the absence of DRH1 zygotic expression; thus, Drh1p is the first protein found to be specifically required for chromosome breakage but not DNA elimination.
MicroRNA (miRNA) plays a key regulatory role in many biological processes, emerging as an important biomarker for a large variety of cancer diseases. Employing gold nanoparticle (AuNP)-coated magnetic microbeads (AuNP-MMBs) as an immobilization matrix for higher loading density of hairpin-structured DNA probes and then ferrocene (Fc)-capped gold nanoparticle/streptavidin conjugates, amplified electrochemical assay of miRNA has been performed. In the presence of target miRNA, a novel assembly was formed via linking biotinylated hairpin DNA probe-covered AuNP-MMBs with Fc-capped gold nanoparticle/streptavidin conjugates and then collected by magnetic electrodes for voltammetric detection. The enlarged surface area, good conductivity of AuNP-MMBs and the multiple Fc tags on the electrode surface ensure high sensitivity of the method. The oxidation peak current of Fc tags is proportional to the concentrations of miRNA ranging from 5 fM to 100 fM, and a detection limit of 0.14 fM was achieved. The proposed assay is highly selective and reproducible, serving as a viable alternative for the detection of miRNA-182 from serum samples of glioma patients.
Functional genomics efforts face tradeoffs between number of perturbations examined and complexity of phenotypes measured. We bridge this gap with Perturb-seq, which combines droplet-based single-cell RNA-seq with a strategy for barcoding CRISPR-mediated perturbations, allowing many perturbations to be profiled in pooled format. We applied Perturb-seq to dissect the mammalian unfolded protein response (UPR) using single and combinatorial CRISPR perturbations. Two genome-scale CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) screens identified genes whose repression perturbs ER homeostasis. Subjecting ∼100 hits to Perturb-seq enabled high-precision functional clustering of genes. Single-cell analyses decoupled the three UPR branches, revealed bifurcated UPR branch activation among cells subject to the same perturbation, and uncovered differential activation of the branches across hits, including an isolated feedback loop between the translocon and IRE1α. These studies provide insight into how the three sensors of ER homeostasis monitor distinct types of stress and highlight the ability of Perturb-seq to dissect complex cellular responses.
Certain microorganisms such as fungi are known to utilize hydrocarbons present in tarballs as sole source of carbon for nutrition. Previous studies have reported 53 fungal taxa associated with tarballs. There is apparently no gene sequence-data available for the published taxa so as to verify the fungal identification using modern taxonomic tools. The objective of the present study is to isolate fungi from tarballs collected from Candolim beach in Goa, India and investigate their phylogenetic diversity based on 5.8S rRNA gene and the flanking internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS) sequence analysis. In the ITS-based NJ tree, eight tarball-associated fungal isolates clustered with 3 clades of Dothideomycetes and 2 clades of Saccharomycetes. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study that has employed ITS-based phylogeny to characterize the fungal diversity associated with tarballs. Further studies are warranted to investigate the role of the tarball-associated fungi in degradation of recalcitrant hydrocarbons present in tarballs and the role of tarballs as carriers of human pathogenic fungi.
Purpose: Selinexor, a selective inhibitor of XPO1, is currently being tested as single agent in clinical trials in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, considering the molecular complexity of AML, it is unlikely that AML can be cured with monotherapy. Therefore, we asked whether adding already established effective drugs such as topoisomerase (Topo) II inhibitors to selinexor will enhance its anti-leukemic effects in AML. Experimental Design: The efficacy of combinatorial drug treatment using Topo II inhibitors (idarubicin, daunorubicin, mitoxantrone, etoposide) and selinexor was evaluated in established cellular and animal models of AML. Results: Concomitant treatment with selinexor and Topo II inhibitors resulted in therapeutic synergy in AML cell lines and patient samples. Using a xenograft MV4-11 AML mouse model, we show that treatment with selinexor and idarubicin significantly prolongs survival of leukemic mice compared with each single therapy. Conclusions: Aberrant nuclear export and cytoplasmic localization of Topo IIα has been identified as one of the mechanisms leading to drug resistance in cancer. Here, we show that in a subset of patients with AML that express cytoplasmic Topo IIα, selinexor treatment results in nuclear retention of Topo IIα protein, resulting in increased sensitivity to idarubicin. Selinexor treatment of AML cells resulted in a c-MYC-dependent reduction of DNA damage repair genes (Rad51 and Chk1) mRNA and protein expression and subsequent inhibition of homologous recombination repair and increased sensitivity to Topo II inhibitors. The preclinical data reported here support further clinical studies using selinexor and Topo II inhibitors in combination to treat AML.
Genetic screens help infer gene function in mammalian cells, but it has remained difficult to assay complex phenotypes—such as transcriptional profiles—at scale. Here, we develop Perturb-seq, combining single-cell RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-based perturbations to perform many such assays in a pool. We demonstrate Perturb-seq by analyzing 200,000 cells in immune cells and cell lines, focusing on transcription factors regulating the response of dendritic cells to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Perturb-seq accurately identifies individual gene targets, gene signatures, and cell states affected by individual perturbations and their genetic interactions. We posit new functions for regulators of differentiation, the anti-viral response, and mitochondrial function during immune activation. By decomposing many high content measurements into the effects of perturbations, their interactions, and diverse cell metadata, Perturb-seq dramatically increases the scope of pooled genomic assays.
Biomaterials, such as, enzyme, DNA, RNA, and proteins have become important templates for the construction of inorganic–organic hybrid nanoflowers. From this perspective, we present a simple approach to synthesize protein and metal hybrid flower-like structure using bovine serum albumin (BSA) and cobalt phosphate, and the results of our study on the formation mechanism involved. The time dependent growing stage and formation mechanism were analyzed by electron microscopes and spectroscopic techniques. The protein-directed assembly method for preparation of hybrid nanoflowers described in this work could be used to fabricate other bio-metal hybrid materials with possible applications in biosensors, bioanalytical devices, and industrial biocatalyst fields.
However, the presence of paralogues, and hence possible genetic compensation, for many genes necessitates the knockout (KO) of all paralogous genes in order to observe clear phenotypic change. CRISPR technology, the most recently described tool for gene editing, can generate KOs with unprecedented ease and speed and has been used in adult stem cell-derived organoids for single gene knockout, gene knock-in and gene correction. However, the simultaneous targeting of multiple genes in organoids by CRISPR technology has not previously been described. Here we describe a rapid, scalable and cost effective method for generating double knockouts in organoids. By concatemerizing multiple gRNA expression cassettes, we generated a ‘gRNA concatemer vector’. Our method allows the rapid assembly of annealed synthetic DNA oligos into the final vector in a single step. This approach facilitates simultaneous delivery of multiple gRNAs to allow up to 4 gene KO in one step, or potentially to increase the efficiency of gene knockout by providing multiple gRNAs targeting one gene. As a proof of concept, we knocked out negative regulators of the Wnt pathway in small intestinal organoids, thereby removing their growth dependence on the exogenous Wnt enhancer, R-spondin1.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in a wide range of biological processes, and their aberrant expressions are linked to a large number of human diseases and disorders. In this work, we developed a colorimetric method for rapid, ultrasensitive miRNA detection via isothermal exponential amplification reaction (EXPAR)-assisted gold nanoparticle (AuNP) amplification. The sensing probe designed with a tandem phosphorothioate modification in the backbone of the polyadenines at the 5′ terminus was employed to directly assemble onto the surface of AuNP with high adsorption affinity. The recognition domain at the 3′ terminus of the sensing probe hybridizes with target miRNAs to trigger EXPAR with exponential signal amplification. With the amplification reaction with the action of DNA polymerase, the sensing probe gradually detaches from the AuNP, resulting in the aggregation of bare AuNPs in the high-salt reaction environment due to lack of DNA protection. The presence of AuNP aggregation is conveniently measured by UV–vis spectroscopy. Our proposed method could provide a linear detection range from 50 fM to 10 nM with a detection limit of ∼46 fM within 60 min, and also discriminate a single-nucleotide difference between homologous miRNAs.
Background: Haemaphysalis erinacei is one of the few ixodid tick species for which valid names of subspecies exist. Despite their disputed taxonomic status in the literature, these subspecies have not yet been compared with molecular methods. The aim of the present study was to investigate the phylogenetic relationships of H. erinacei subspecies, in the context of the first finding of this tick species in Romania. Results: After morphological identification, DNA was extracted from five adults of H. e. taurica (from Romania and Turkey), four adults of H. e. erinacei (from Italy) and 17 adults of H. e. turanica (from China). From these samples fragments of the cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 (cox1) and 16S rRNA genes were amplified via PCR and sequenced. Results showed that cox1 and 16S rRNA gene sequence divergences between H. e. taurica from Romania and H. e. erinacei from Italy were below 2%. However, the sequence divergences between H. e. taurica from Romania and H. e. turanica from China were high (up to 7.3% difference for the 16S rRNA gene), exceeding the reported level of sequence divergence between closely related tick species. At the same time, two adults of H. e. taurica from Turkey had higher 16S rRNA gene similarity to H. e. turanica from China (up to 97.5%) than to H. e. taurica from Romania (96.3%), but phylogenetically clustered more closely to H. e. taurica than to H. e. turanica. Conclusions: This is the first finding of H. erinacei in Romania, and the first (although preliminary) phylogenetic comparison of H. erinacei subspecies. Phylogenetic analyses did not support that the three H. erinacei subspecies evaluated here are of equal taxonomic rank, because the genetic divergence between H. e. turanica from China and H. e. taurica from Romania exceeded the usual level of sequence divergence between closely related tick species, suggesting that they might represent different species. Therefore, the taxonomic status of the subspecies of H. erinacei needs to be revised based on a larger number of specimens collected throughout its geographical range.
In this study, we comprehensively analyzed prognostic roles of 3,116 common SNPs in PIWI-piRNA pathway genes in melanoma disease-specific survival. A published genome-wide association study (GWAS) by The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center was used to identify associated SNPs, which were later validated by another GWAS from the Harvard Nurses' Health Study and Health Professionals Follow-up Study. After multiple testing correction, we found that there were 27 common SNPs in two genes (PIWIL4 and DCP1A) with false discovery rate < 0.2 in the discovery dataset. Three tagSNPs (i.e., rs7933369 and rs508485 in PIWIL4; rs11551405 in DCP1A) were replicated. The rs11551405 A allele, located at the 3' UTR microRNA binding site of DCP1A, was associated with an increased risk of melanoma disease-specific death in both discovery dataset [adjusted Hazards ratio (HR) = 1.66, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.21–2.27, p =1.50 ï¿½ 10−3] and validation dataset (HR = 1.55, 95% CI = 1.03–2.34, p = 0.038), compared with the C allele, and their meta-analysis showed an HR of 1.62 (95% CI, 1.26–2.08, p =1.55 ï¿½ 10−4). Using RNA-seq data from the 1000 Genomes Project, we found that DCP1A mRNA expression levels increased significantly with the A allele number of rs11551405. Additional large, prospective studies are needed to validate these findings.
However, due to the limited sensitivity, the detection window of RT-PCR for Zika viremia is only about one week after symptom onset. By combining loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) and AC susceptometry, we demonstrate a rapid and homogeneous detection system for the Zika virus oligonucleotide. Streptavidin-magnetic nanoparticles (streptavidin-MNPs) are premixed with LAMP reagents including the analyte and biotinylated primers, and their hydrodynamic volumes are dramatically increased after a successful LAMP reaction. Analyzed by a portable AC susceptometer, the changes of the hydrodynamic volume are probed as Brownian relaxation frequency shifts, which can be used to quantify the Zika virus oligonucleotide. The proposed detection system can recognize 1 aM synthetic Zika virus oligonucleotide in 20% serum with a total assay time of 27 min, which can hopefully widen the detection window for Zika viremia and is therefore promising in worldwide Zika fever control.
Over 1200 C-type lectin gene models have been identified in amphioxus, but only a few of them have been functionally characterized. In this study, we identified a C-type lectin, BjCTL, with domain structure of LDLa-CTLD-EGF_Lam, the first such data in chordates. It was expressed mainly in the notochord and ovary in a tissue-dependent fashion. Recombinant BjCTL was characterized as a typical Ca2ï¿½+-dependent carbohydrate-binding protein capable of agglutinating and binding to both Gram-negative and positive bacteria we tested. In addition, it specifically bound to insoluble lipopolysaccharide, lipoteichoic acid and peptidoglycan, which can be inhibited by galactose. We also showed that the interaction of BjCTL with the bacteria is primarily attributable to CTLD domain. Thus, BjCTL is a novel pattern recognition protein involved in lectin-mediated innate immunity.
BQ1 (Lintan) is one of the parasites isolated from infected sheep in China that belongs to the B. motasi-like phylogenetic group. The rhoptry-associated-protein 1 (rap-1) locus in this group consists of a complex organization of 12 genes of three main types: 6 rap-1a variants intercalated with 5 identical copies of rap-1b and a single 3' ending rap-1c gene. In the present study, transcription analysis performed by standard RT-PCR demonstrated that the three different rap-1 gene types and the four rap-1a variants were transcribed by the parasite cultivated in vitro. Peptides, specific for each rap-1 type gene, were selected in putative linear B-epitopes and used to raise polyclonal rabbit antisera. Using these sera, the same expression pattern of RAP-1 proteins was found in parasites cultivated in vitro or collected from acute infection whereas only RAP-1a67 was detectable in merozoite extracts. However, ELISA performed with recombinant RAP-1a67, RAP-1b or RAP-1c and sera from infected sheep demonstrated that RAP-1a67 is the main RAP-1 recognized during infection, even if some infected sheep also recognized RAP-1b and/or RAP-1c.
Therapeutic biomolecules often require frequent administration and supramolecular dosing to achieve therapeutic efficiencies and direct infusion into treatment or defect sites results in inadequate physiological response and at times severe side effects or mis-targeting. Delivery systems serve several purposes such as increased circulatory time, increased biomolecule half-life, and incorporation of new innovations can enable highly specific cell targeting and improved cell and nucleus permeability. Poly(lactic acid) (PLA) has become a “material of choice” due to wide availability, reproducible synthetic route, customization, versatility, biodegradability and biocompatibility. Furthermore, PLA is amenable to a variety of fabrication methodologies and chemistries allowing an expansive library correlating physio-chemical properties, characteristics, and applications. This article discusses challenges to biomolecule delivery, and classical approaches of PLA based biomolecule delivery and targeting strategies under development and in trials.
Buprofezin is known for its broad-spectrum action and environmental safety. The popularity of buprofezin has raised concerns about its potentially adverse effects on human health and risk to the environment. In this study, we first identified the liver as one of the major organs in which buprofezin accumulated, and we detected a severe oxidative stress response. Next, we demonstrated that sublethal concentrations of buprofezin promoted the conversion of energy metabolism from the aerobic tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation to anaerobic glycolysis. Importantly, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation partially accounted for the shunting of the energy metabolism through the buprofezin-mediated inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase activity. ROS directly perturbed the activities of several key TCA cycle enzymes, stimulated glycolysis, and indirectly disturbed the activity of the respiratory chain complex by altering mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). These findings clarify the potential mechanisms of buprofezin toxicity and provide biomarkers for buprofezin-mediated hepatotoxicity at sublethal concentrations.
Background: Environmental chlamydiae belonging to the Parachlamydiaceae are obligate intracellular bacteria that infect Acanthamoeba, a free-living amoeba, and are a risk for hospital-acquired pneumonia. However, whether amoebae harboring environmental chlamydiae actually survive in hospital environments is unknown. We therefore isolated living amoebae with symbiotic chlamydiae from hospital environments. Results: One hundred smear samples were collected from Hokkaido University Hospital, Sapporo, Japan; 50 in winter (February to March, 2012) and 50 in summer (August, 2012), and used for the study. Acanthamoebae were isolated from the smear samples, and endosymbiotic chlamydial traits were assessed by infectivity, cytokine induction, and draft genomic analysis. From these, 23 amoebae were enriched on agar plates spread with heat-killed Escherichia coli. Amoeba prevalence was greater in the summer-collected samples (15/30, 50%) than those of the winter season (8/30, 26.7%), possibly indicating a seasonal variation (p = 0.096). Morphological assessment of cysts revealed 21 amoebae (21/23, 91%) to be Acanthamoeba, and cultures in PYG medium were established for 11 of these amoebae. Three amoebae contained environmental chlamydiae; however, only one amoeba (Acanthamoeba T4) with an environmental chlamydia (Protochlamydia W-9) was shown the infectious ability to Acanthamoeba C3 (reference amoebae). While Protochlamydia W-9 could infect C3 amoeba, it failed to replicate in immortal human epithelial, although exposure of HEp-2 cells to living bacteria induced the proinflammatory cytokine, IL-8. Comparative genome analysis with KEGG revealed similar genomic features compared with other Protochlamydia genomes (UWE25 and R18), except for a lack of genes encoding the type IV secretion system. Interestingly, resistance genes associated with several antibiotics and toxic compounds were identified. Conclusion: These findings are the first demonstration of the distribution in a hospital of a living Acanthamoeba carrying an endosymbiotic chlamydial pathogen.
We recently reported epigenetic changes in DNA derived from saliva in three genes predicted depression in a cohort of maltreated children: DNA-binding protein inhibitor ID-3 (ID3), Glutamate NMDA Receptor (GRIN1), and Tubulin Polymerization Promoting Protein (TPPP). To validate the role of these genes in depression risk, secondary analyses were conducted of gene expression data obtained from medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) tissue of mice subjected to a model of maternal neglect which included maternal separation and early weaning (MSEW). Anxiety and depression-like phenotype data derived using the elevated plus maze (EPM) and forced swimming test (FST), respectively, were also available for secondary analyses. Behavioral tests were conducted in MSEW and control adult male mice when they were between 65 and 80 days old. ID3, GRIN1 and TPPP gene expression in the mPFC were found to significantly predict behavioral differences in the EPM and FST. These results further support the role of these genes in the etiology of depressive and anxiety phenotypes following early life stress.
The ultrasensitive electrochemical detection of miRNA-21 was realized by using a novel redox and catalytic “all-in-one” mechanism with an iridium(III) complex as a catalyst. To construct such a sensor, a capture probe (CP) was firstly immobilized onto the gold electrode surface. In the presence of miRNA-21, a sandwiched DNA complex could form between CP and a methylene blue (MB) labeled G-rich detection probe modified onto a gold nanoparticle (AuNP) surface (DP-AuNPs). Upon addition of K+, the structure of DP changed to a G-quadruplex. Then, the iridium(III) complex could selectively interact with the G-quadruplex, catalyzing the reduction of H2O2, which was accompanied by an electrochemical signal change using MB as an electron mediator. Under optimal conditions, the electrochemical signal of MB reduction peak was proportional to miRNA concentration in the range from 5.0 fM to 1.0 pM, with a detection limit of 1.6 fM. In addition, satisfactory results were obtained for miRNA-21 detection in human serum samples, indicating a potential application of the sensor for bioanalysis.
Alternative polyadenylation (APA) is a process that changes the posttranscriptional regulation and translation potential of mRNAs via addition or deletion of 3′ untranslated region (3′ UTR) sequences. To identify posttranscriptional-regulatory events affected by APA in breast tumors, tumor datasets were analyzed for recurrent APA events. Motif mapping of the changed 3′ UTR regions found that APA-mediated removal of Pumilio regulatory elements (PRE) was unusually common. Breast tumor subtype-specific APA profiling identified triple-negative breast tumors as having the highest levels of APA. To determine the frequency of these events, an independent cohort of triple-negative breast tumors and normal breast tissue was analyzed for APA. APA-mediated shortening of NRAS and c-JUN was seen frequently, and this correlated with changes in the expression of downstream targets. mRNA stability and luciferase assays demonstrated APA-dependent alterations in RNA and protein levels of affected candidate genes. Examination of clinical parameters of these tumors found those with APA of NRAS and c-JUN to be smaller and less proliferative, but more invasive than non-APA tumors. RT-PCR profiling identified elevated levels of polyadenylation factor CSTF3 in tumors with APA. Overexpression of CSTF3 was common in triple-negative breast cancer cell lines, and elevated CSTF3 levels were sufficient to induce APA of NRAS and c-JUN. Our results support the hypothesis that PRE-containing mRNAs are disproportionately affected by APA, primarily due to high sequence similarity in the motifs utilized by polyadenylation machinery and the PUM complex.
Isogenic cell populations possess heterogeneous gene expression patterns. Most methods for mRNA expression analysis start with the reverse transcription of mRNA into cDNA, a process that can introduce strong signal variations not related to the actual mRNA levels. Miniaturized lab-on-a-chip systems offer properties - e.g. low sample dilution, low contamination - that enable new reaction schemes for molecular analyses. To enable transcription-free mRNA expression analysis of few single cells, a one-step cell lysis, target labelling and hybridisation approach as well as a corresponding passive multiwell chip with a volume of 25.5 nL/well were developed. The method enabled the parallel analysis of up to 96 samples and 6 target genes per sample. Preceding light microscopy of the living cells allowed correlating mRNA levels and cell number. As a proof-of-principle, the pancreatic cancer cell line Panc-1 was investigated for expression heterogeneity of a reference gene plus 5 genes reported to be overexpressed in cancer stem cells (CSCs). A good correlation (r(51)=0.739, p<0.001; rs(51)=0.744, p<0.001) between the cell number per well and the number of detected reference gene mRNA confirmed the proper function of the device. Moreover, a heterogeneous expression of the CSC-associated target genes was found which matched well with reports on the presence of CSCs in the Panc-1 cell line.
Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd. Bipotent neuromesodermal progenitors (NMPs) residing in the caudal epiblast drive coordinated body axis extension by generating both posterior neuroectoderm and presomitic mesoderm. Retinoic acid (RA) is required for body axis extension, however the early molecular response to RA signaling is poorly defined, as is its relationship to NMP biology. As endogenous RA is first seen near the time when NMPs appear, we used WNT/FGF agonists to differentiate embryonic stem cells to NMPs which were then treated with a short 2-h pulse of 25 nM RA or 1 μM RA followed by RNA-seq transcriptome analysis. Differential expression analysis of this dataset indicated that treatment with 25 nM RA, but not 1 μM RA, provided physiologically relevant findings. The 25 nM RA dataset yielded a cohort of previously known caudal RA target genes including Fgf8 (repressed) and Sox2 (activated), plus novel early RA signaling targets with nearby conserved RA response elements. Importantly, validation of topranked genes in vivo using RA-deficient Raldh2-/- embryos identified novel examples of RA activation (Nkx1-2, Zfp503, Zfp703, Gbx2, Fgf15, Nt5e) or RA repression (Id1) of genes expressed in the NMP niche or progeny. These findings provide evidence for early instructive and permissive roles of RA in controlling differentiation of NMPs to neural and mesodermal lineages.
Ciliated protozoans perform extreme forms of programmed somatic DNA rearrangement during development. The model ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila removes 34% of its germline micronuclear genome from somatic macronuclei by excising thousands of internal eliminated sequences (IESs), a process that shares features with transposon excision. Indeed, piggyBac transposon-derived genes are necessary for genome-wide IES excision in both Tetrahymena (TPB2 [Tetrahymena piggyBac-like 2] and LIA5) and Paramecium tetraurelia (PiggyMac). T. thermophila has at least three other piggyBac-derived genes: TPB1, TPB6, and TPB7. Here, we show that TPB1 and TPB6 excise a small, distinct set of 12 unusual IESs that disrupt exons. TPB1-deficient cells complete mating, but their progeny exhibit slow growth, giant vacuoles, and osmotic shock sensitivity due to retention of an IES in the vacuolar gene DOP1 (Dopey domain-containing protein). Unlike most IESs, TPB1-dependent IESs have piggyBac-like terminal inverted motifs that are necessary for excision. Transposon-like excision mediated by TPB1 and TPB6 provides direct evidence for a transposon origin of not only IES excision machinery but also IESs themselves. Our study highlights a division of labor among ciliate piggyBac-derived genes, which carry out mutually exclusive categories of excision events mediated by either transposon-like features or RNA-directed heterochromatin.
Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.Multiciliated cell (MCC) differentiation involves extensive organelle biogenesis required to extend hundreds of motile cilia. Key transcriptional regulators known to drive the gene expression required for this organelle biogenesis are activated by the related coiled-coil proteins Multicilin and Gemc1. Here we identify foxn4 as a new downstream target of Multicilin required for MCC differentiation in Xenopus skin. When Foxn4 activity is inhibited in Xenopus embryos, MCCs show transient ciliogenesis defects similar to those seen in mutants of Foxj1, a known key regulator of genes required for motile ciliation. RNAseq analysis indicates that Foxn4 co-activates some Foxj1 target genes strongly and many Foxj1 targets weakly. ChIPseq suggests that whereas Foxn4 and Foxj1 frequently bind to different targets at distal enhancers, they largely bind together at MCC gene promoters. Consistent with this co-regulation, cilia extension by MCCs is more severely compromised in foxn4 and foxj1 double mutants than in single mutants. In contrast to Foxj1, Foxn4 is not required to extend a single motile cilium by cells involved in left-right patterning. These results indicate that Foxn4 complements Foxj1 transcriptionally during MCC differentiation, thereby shaping the levels of gene expression required for the timely and complete biogenesis of multiple motile cilia.
Oxazolinodoxorubicin (O-DOX) and oxazolinodaunorubicin (O-DAU) are novel anthracycline derivatives with a modified daunosamine moiety. In the present study, we evaluated the cytotoxicities, genotoxicities and abilities of O-DOX and O-DAU to induce apoptosis in cancer cell lines (SKOV-3; A549; HepG2), and compared the results with their parent drugs. We assessed antiproliferative activity by MTT assay. We evaluated apoptosis-inducing ability by double-staining with fluorescent probes (Hoechst 33258/propidium iodide), and by determining expression levels of genes involved in programmed cell death by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Genotoxicities of the compounds were tested by comet assays. Oxazolinoanthracyclines demonstrated high anti-tumor activity. O-DOX had significantly higher cytotoxicity, apoptosis-inducing ability, and genotoxicity compared with parental doxorubicin (DOX) in all tested conditions, while O-DAU activity differed among cell lines. The mechanism of oxazoline analog action appeared to involve the mitochondrial pathway of programmed cell death. These results provide further information about oxazoline derivatives of commonly used anthracycline chemotherapy agents. O-DOX and O-DAU have the ability to induce apoptosis in tumor cells.
In this work, an ultrasensitive electrochemical microRNA detection strategy was developed based on porous palladium-modified horseradish peroxidase sphere (Pd@HRP) and target-induced assembly of DNAzyme. A highly loaded HRP sphere was prepared by covalent layer-by-layer assembly with CaCO3 as sacrificial template for the first time, and was further modified with porous Pd. Notably, Pd@HRP composite showed a good redox activity of HRP and electrocatalytic activity toward H2O2. The utilization of Pd@HRP as electrochemical signal indicator and enhancer to fabricate biosensor could avoid the need for additional redox mediator and amplify the detection sensitivity. Moreover, target recycling amplification was achieved by Pb2+-induced cleavage of ternary “Y” structure, circumventing the use of labile nuclease. Subsequent DNA concatamer synthesized through rolling circle amplification (RCA) reaction with cleaved hairpin probe as primer, hybridized with plentiful Pd@HRP-DNA probes, which led to the increased loading of redox-active and electrocatalytic Pd@HRP for sensitivity improvement. So the proposed electrochemical biosensor detected miRNA-24 down to 0.2 fM (S/N = 3) with a wide linear range from 3 fM to 1 nM. With bifunctional Pd@HRP tag, DNAzyme-aided target recycle and programmable junction probe, this strategy possessed the advantages of high efficiency, high sensitivity, low cost and versatility, and thus held great promise for other low-abundance nucleic acids determination.
Polyfluoroalkyl phosphates (PAPs), a group of fluorotelomer alcohol (FTOH)-based surfactants commonly used in water- and grease-proof food contact paper, have been suggested as a direct source of human exposure to health-concerned perfluoroalkyl carboxylic acids (PFCAs). This study investigated factors affecting biotranformation of 6:2 polyfluoroalkyl phosphates (6:2 PAPs) by three known FTOH-degrading Pseudomonas strains (Pseudomonas butanovora, P. oleovorans, and P. fluorescens DSM 8341) under different co-substrate conditions and compared to that by activated sludge samples. The three pure strains transformed 6:2 PAPs into eight different per- and poly-fluoroalkyl carboxylic acids (PFCAs) and/or PFCA precursors. P. fluorescens DSM 8341 produced 5:2 sFTOH [CF3(CF2)4CH(OH)CH3] and P. oleovorans produced 5:2 ketone [CF3(CF2)4C(O)CH3] as the primary transformation product, respectively, with citrate having a minimal impact on the transformation. P. butanovora with lactate produced more diverse transformation products than those by any two strains. Activated sludge was more efficient at transforming 6:2 PAPs and produced more transformation products including PFHpA [CF3(CF2)5COOH] and PFPeA [CF3(CF2)3COOH], with 5:2 sFTOH as the most abundant product on day 30. The abundance of the alkane hydroxylase (alkB) gene related to alkane oxidation, the changes of total microbial population as well as their community structure in activated sludge during 6:2 PAPs biotransformation were also investigated.
Due to the intimate association between plants and their microbial symbionts, an examination of the influence of agricultural practices on phytobiome structure and diversity could foster a more comprehensive understanding of plant health and produce safety. Indeed, the impact of upstream crop producti006Fn practices cannot be overstated in their role in assuring an abundant and safe food supply. To assess whether fertilizer type impacted rhizosphere and phyllosphere bacterial communities associating with tomato plants, the bacterial microbiome of tomato cv. ‘BHN602’ grown in soils amended with fresh poultry litter, commercially available sterilized poultry litter pellets, vermicompost or synthetic fertilizer was described. Culture independent DNA was extracted from bulk and rhizosphere soils, and washes of tomato blossoms and ripe fruit. PCR amplicons of hypervariable regions of the 16S rRNA gene were sequenced and profiled using the QIIME pipeline. Bulk and rhizosphere soil, and blossom and fruit surfaces all supported distinct bacterial communities according to principal coordinate analysis and ANOSIM (R = 0.87, p = 0.001 in year 1; R = 0.93, p = 0.001 in year 2). Use of microbiologically diverse organic fertilizers generally did not influence bacterial diversity, community structure or relative abundance of specific taxa on any plant organ surface. However, statistically significant differences in sand and silt contents of soil (p < 0.05) across the field and corresponding shifts in water activity were positively (R2 = 0.52, p = 0.005) and negatively (R2 = 0.48, p = 0.009) correlated with changes in bacterial community structure in the rhizosphere, respectively. Over two harvest seasons, this study demonstrated that the application of raw poultry manure, poultry litter pellets and vermicompost had little effect on the tomato microbiome in the rhizosphere and phyllosphere, when compared to synthetically fertilized plants. Plant anatomy, and other factors related to field location, possibly associated with edaphic and air characteristics, were more influential drivers of different tomato organ microbiomes than were diverse soil amendment applications.
Disinfection processes aim at reducing the number of viable cells through the generation of damages in different cellular structures and molecules. Since disinfection involves unspecific mechanisms, some microbial populations may be selected due to resilience to treatment and/or to high post-treatment fitness. In this study, the bacterial community composition of secondarily treated urban wastewater and of surface water collected in the intake area of a drinking water treatment plant was compared before and 3-days after disinfection with ultraviolet radiation, ozonation or photocatalytic ozonation. The aim was to assess the dynamics of the bacterial communities during regrowth after disinfection. In all the freshly collected samples, Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes were the predominant phyla (40–50% and 20–30% of the reads, respectively). Surface water differed from wastewater mainly in the relative abundance of Actinobacteria (17% and < 5% of the reads, respectively). After 3-days storage at light and room temperature, disinfected samples presented a shift of Gammaproteobacteria (from 8 to 10% to 33–65% of the reads) and Betaproteobacteria (from 14 to 20% to 31–37% of the reads), irrespective of the type of water and disinfection process used. Genera such as Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter or Rheinheimera presented a selective advantage after water disinfection. These variations were not observed in the non-disinfected controls. Given the ubiquity and genome plasticity of these bacteria, the results obtained suggest that disinfection processes may have implications on the microbiological quality of the disinfected water.
To determined the Cr(VI) toxicity effects, gene expression profile can be meaningful for discovering underlying mechanisms of toxicity, and identifying potential specific genetic markers of Cr(VI) exposure and effects. In the current study, gene expression profiling and bioinformatics analysis in 16HBE cells treated by chromium(VI) compound were performed. The MTT assay was done to determine the optimal Cr(VI) treated concentration and time. The mRNA expression profile was performed using Arraystar Microarray V3.0 at 10.00 μM Cr(VI). RT-qPCR was applied to verify some interested significantly altered genes at different treatment groups. Comprehensive analysis including biological processes, GO ontology network, pathway network analysis and gene-gene network analysis was conducted to identify the related biological processes, signal pathway and critical genes. It was found that Cr(VI) could induce reduced cells viability and alter gene expression profile of human bronchial epithelial cells. 2273 significantly differential expressed genes formed a complex network and some expressions changed in a Cr(VI) concentration dependent manner. In conclusion, Cr(VI) toxicity effects may involve in oxidative stress, inflammation, energy metabolism, protein synthesis endocytosis, ion binding, DNA binding and metabolism, cell morphogenesis, cell cycle regulation, autophagy, apoptosis, cell death, and carcinogenesis by some specific pathway. Meanwhile, some significantly differential expression genes can be used as potential biomarkers of Cr(VI) exposure.
An ultrasensitive electrochemical biosensor for microRNA (miRNA) is developed based on tungsten oxide-graphene composites coupling with catalyzed hairpin assembly target recycling and enzyme signal amplification. WO3-Gr is prepared by a simple hydrothermal method and then coupled with gold nanoparticles to act as a sensing platform. The thiol-terminated capture probe H1 is immobilized on electrode through Au–S interaction. In the presence of target miRNA, H1 opens its hairpin structure by hybridization with target miRNA. This hybridization can be displaced from the structure by another stable biotinylated hairpin DNA (H2), and target miRNA is released back to the sample solution for next cycle. Thus, a large amount of H1-H2 duplex is produced after the cyclic process. At this point, a lot of signal indicators streptavidin-conjugated alkaline phosphatase (SA-ALP) are immobilized on the electrode by the specific binding of avidin-biotin. Then, thousands of ascorbic acid, which is the enzymatic product of ALP, induces the electrochemical-chemical-chemical redox cycling to produce a strongly electrochemical response in the presence of ferrocene methanol and tris (2-carboxyethyl) phosphine. Under the optimal experimental conditions, the established biosensor can detect target miRNA down to 0.05 fM (S/N=3) with a linear range from 0.1 fM to 100 pM, and discriminate target miRNA from mismatched miRNA with a high selectivity.
Background: The cyclic peptide toxins of Amanita mushrooms, such as α-amanitin and phalloidin, are encoded by the "MSDIN" gene family and ribosomally biosynthesized. Based on partial genome sequence and PCR analysis, some members of the MSDIN family were previously identified in Amanita bisporigera, and several other members are known from other species of Amanita. However, the complete complement in any one species, and hence the genetic capacity for these fungi to make cyclic peptides, remains unknown. Results: Draft genome sequences of two cyclic peptide-producing mushrooms, the "Death Cap" A. phalloides and the "Destroying Angel" A. bisporigera, were obtained. Each species has ~30 MSDIN genes, most of which are predicted to encode unknown cyclic peptides. Some MSDIN genes were duplicated in one or the other species, but only three were common to both species. A gene encoding cycloamanide B, a previously described nontoxic cyclic heptapeptide, was also present in A. phalloides, but genes for antamanide and cycloamanides A, C, and D were not. In A. bisporigera, RNA expression was observed for 20 of the MSDIN family members. Based on their predicted sequences, novel cyclic peptides were searched for by LC/MS/MS in extracts of A. phalloides. The presence of two cyclic peptides, named cycloamanides E and F with structures cyclo(SFFFPVP) and cyclo(IVGILGLP), was thereby demonstrated. Of the MSDIN genes reported earlier from another specimen of A. bisporigera, 9 of 14 were not found in the current genome assembly. Differences between previous and current results for the complement of MSDIN genes and cyclic peptides in the two fungi probably represents natural variation among geographically dispersed isolates of A. phalloides and among the members of the poorly defined A. bisporigera species complex. Both A. phalloides and A. bisporigera contain two prolyl oligopeptidase genes, one of which (POPB) is probably dedicated to cyclic peptide biosynthesis as it is in Galerina marginata. Conclusion: The MSDIN gene family has expanded and diverged rapidly in Amanita section Phalloideae. Together, A. bisporigera and A. phalloides are predicted to have the capacity to make more than 50 cyclic hexa-, hepta-, octa-, nona- and decapeptides.
The Journal of Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological SocietyKey points: Resistance exercise training (RET) is one of the most effective strategies for preventing declines in skeletal muscle mass and strength with age. Hypertrophic responses to RET with age are diminished compared to younger individuals. In response to 6 weeks RET, we found blunted hypertrophic responses with age are underpinned by chronic deficits in long-term muscle protein synthesis. We show this is likely to be the result of multifactorial deficits in anabolic hormones and blunted translational efficiency and capacity. These results provide great insight into age-related exercise adaptations and provide a platform on which to devise appropriate nutritional and exercise interventions on a longer term basis. Abstract: Ageing is associated with impaired hypertrophic responses to resistance exercise training (RET). Here we investigated the aetiology of ‘anabolic resistance’ in older humans. Twenty healthy male individuals, 10 younger (Y; 23 ± 1 years) and 10 older (O; 69 ± 3 years), performed 6 weeks unilateral RET (6 × 8 repetitions, 75% of one repetition maximum (1-RM), 3 times per week). After baseline bilateral vastus lateralis (VL) muscle biopsies, subjects consumed 150 ml D2O (70 atom%; thereafter 50 ml week−1), further bilateral VL muscle biopsies were taken at 3 and 6 weeks to quantify muscle protein synthesis (MPS) via gas chromatography–pyrolysis–isotope ratio mass spectrometry. After RET, 1-RM increased in Y (+35 ± 4%) and O (+25 ± 3%; P < 0.01), while MVC increased in Y (+21 ± 5%; P < 0.01) but not O (+6 ± 3%; not significant (NS)). In comparison to Y, O displayed blunted RET-induced increases in muscle thickness (at 3 and 6 weeks, respectively, Y: +8 ± 1% and +11 ± 2%, P < 0.01; O: +2.6 ± 1% and +3.5 ± 2%, NS). While ‘basal’ longer term MPS was identical between Y and O (∼1.35 ± 0.1% day−1), MPS increased in response to RET only in Y (3 weeks, Y: 1.61 ± 0.1% day−1; O: 1.49 ± 0.1% day−1). Consistent with this, O exhibited inferior ribosomal biogenesis (RNA:DNA ratio and c-MYC induction: Y: +4 ± 2 fold change; O: +1.9 ± 1 fold change), translational efficiency (S6K1 phosphorylation, Y: +10 ± 4 fold change; O: +4 ± 2 fold change) and anabolic hormone milieu (testosterone, Y: 367 ± 19; O: 274 ± 19 ng dl−1 (all P < 0.05). Anabolic resistance is thus multifactorial.
In the last years, increasing attention has been paid on the presence of antibiotics in aqueous environments due to their ecological damage and potential adverse effects on organisms. Membrane biofilm reactors (MBfR) have been gained a significant popularity as an advanced wastewater treatment technology in removing of organic micro-pollutants. In this study, the performance of H2-MBfR for simultaneous removal of nitrate and chlortetracycline, formation of transformation products and community analysis of the biofilm grown on the gas permeable hollow fiber membranes was evaluated by considering effect of the hydraulic retention time, surface loadings of target pollutants and H2 pressure. The results showed that the simultaneous chlortetracycline (96%) and nitrate removal (99%) took placed successfully under the conditions of 5 h HRT and 2 psi H2 pressure. It has been determined that the main elimination process was biodegradation and Betaproteobacteria species was responsible for chlortetracycline degradation.
Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd. Spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 (SCA6) is a neurodegenerative disease that results from abnormal expansion of a polyglutamine (polyQ) repeat. SCA6 is caused by CAG triplet repeat expansion in the gene CACNA1A, resulting in a polyQ tract of 19-33 in patients. CACNA1A, a bicistronic gene, encodes the α1A calcium channel subunit and the transcription factor, α1ACT. PolyQ expansion in α1ACT causes degeneration in mice. We recently described the first Drosophila models of SCA6 that express α1ACT with a normal (11Q) or hyperexpanded (70Q) polyQ. Here, we report additional α1ACT transgenic flies, which express full-length α1ACT with a 33Q repeat. We show that α1ACT33Q is toxic in Drosophila, but less so than the 70Q version. When expressed everywhere, α1ACT33Q-expressing adults die earlier than flies expressing the normal allele. α1ACT33Q causes retinal degeneration and leads to aggregated species in an agedependent manner, but at a slower pace than the 70Q counterpart. According to western blots, α1ACT33Q localizes less readily in the nucleus than α1ACT70Q, providing clues into the importance of polyQ tract length on α1ACT localization and its site of toxicity. We expect that these new lines will be highly valuable for future work on SCA6.
In solid tumors, hypoxia triggers an aberrant vasculogenesis, enhances malignant character, and elevates metastatic risk. The plasma membrane organizing protein caveolin-1 (Cav1) is increased in a variety of cancers, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), where it contributes to metastatic capability. However, the reason for elevation of Cav1 in tumor cells and the mechanistic basis for its contributions to metastatic risk are not fully understood. Here, we show that in HCC cells, hypoxia elevates expression of Cav1, which then acts through the calcium-binding protein S100P to promote metastasis. Hypoxic regions of HCC xenografts displayed elevated expression of Cav1. Hypoxia promoted HCC cell migration and invasion and distant pulmonary metastases, whereas Cav1 silencing abolished these effects. Gene expression profiling revealed that hypoxia-induced Cav1 functioned as a positive regulator of S100P via activation of the NF-κB pathway. S100P elevation under hypoxic conditions was abrogated by silencing of Cav1 or NF-κB function. Conversely, restoring S100P in Cav1-silenced cells rescued the migratory potential of HCC cells along with tumor formation and lung metastasis. In clinical specimens of HCC, we observed S100P overexpression to correlate with venous invasion, microsatellites, direct liver invasion, and absence of tumor encapsulation. Collectively, our findings demonstrated how hypoxia-induced expression of Cav1 in HCC cells enhances their invasive and metastatic potential.
This article communicates our study to elucidate the molecular determinants of weak Mg2+ interaction with the ribonuclease H (RNH) domain of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase in solution. As the interaction is weak (a ligand-dissociation constant >1 mM), nonspecific Mg2+ interaction with the protein or interaction of the protein with other solutes that are present in the buffer solution can confound the observed Mg2+-titration data. To investigate these indirect effects, we monitored changes in the chemical shifts of backbone amides of RNH by recording NMR 1H-15N heteronuclear single-quantum coherence spectra upon titration of Mg2+ into an RNH solution. We performed the titration under three different conditions: (1) in the absence of NaCl, (2) in the presence of 50 mM NaCl, and (3) at a constant 160 mM Cl- concentration. Careful analysis of these three sets of titration data, along with molecular dynamics simulation data of RNH with Na+ and Cl- ions, demonstrates two characteristic phenomena distinct from the specific Mg2+ interaction with the active site: (1) weak interaction of Mg2+, as a salt, with the substrate-handle region of the protein and (2) overall apparent lower Mg2+ affinity in the absence of NaCl compared to that in the presence of 50 mM NaCl. A possible explanation may be that the titrated MgCl2 is consumed as a salt and interacts with RNH in the absence of NaCl. In addition, our data suggest that Na+ increases the kinetic rate of the specific Mg2+ interaction at the active site of RNH. Taken together, our study provides biophysical insight into the mechanism of weak metal interaction on a protein.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research.We have recently identified lens epithelium-derived growth factor (LEDGF/p75, also known as PSIP1) as a component of the homologous recombination DNA repair machinery. Through its Pro-Trp-Trp-Pro (PWWP) domain, LEDGF/p75 binds to histone marks associated with active transcription and promotes DNA end resection by recruiting DNA endonuclease retinoblastoma-binding protein 8 (RBBP8/CtIP) to broken DNA ends. Here we show that the structurally related PWWP domain-containing protein, hepatoma-derived growth factor-related protein 2 (HDGFRP2), serves a similar function in homologous recombination repair. Its depletion compromises the survival of human U2OS osteosarcoma and HeLa cervix carcinoma cells and impairs the DNA damage-induced phosphorylation of replication protein A2 (RPA2) and the recruitment of DNA endonuclease RBBP8/CtIP to DNA double strand breaks. In contrast to LEDGF/p75, HDGFRP2 binds preferentially to histone marks characteristic for transcriptionally silent chromatin. Accordingly, HDGFRP2 is found in complex with the heterochromatin-binding chromobox homologue 1 (CBX1) and Pogo transposable element with ZNF domain (POGZ). Supporting the functionality of this complex, POGZ-depleted cells show a similar defect in DNA damage-induced RPA2 phosphorylation as HDGFRP2-depleted cells. These data suggest that HDGFRP2, possibly in complex with POGZ, recruits homologous recombination repair machinery to damaged silent genes or to active genes silenced upon DNA damage.
Background: Schistosomiasis is one of the most prevalent parasitic diseases worldwide and is a public health problem. Schistosoma mansoni is the most widespread species responsible for schistosomiasis in the Americas, Middle East and Africa. Adult female worms (mated to males) release eggs in the hepatic portal vasculature and are the principal cause of morbidity. Comparative separate transcriptomes of female and male adult worms were previously assessed with using microarrays and Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE), thus limiting the possibility of finding novel genes. Moreover, the egg transcriptome was analyzed only once with limited bacterially cloned cDNA libraries. Methodology/Principal findings: To compare the gene expression of S. mansoni eggs, females, and males, we performed RNA-Seq on these three parasite forms using 454/Roche technology and reconstructed the transcriptome using Trinity de novo assembly. The resulting contigs were mapped to the genome and were cross-referenced with predicted Smp genes and H3K4me3 ChIP-Seq public data. For the first time, we obtained separate, unbiased gene expression profiles for S. mansoni eggs and female and male adult worms, identifying enriched biological processes and specific enriched functions for each of the three parasite forms. Transcripts with no match to predicted genes were analyzed for their protein-coding potential and the presence of an encoded conserved protein domain. A set of 232 novel protein-coding genes with putative functions related to reproduction, metabolism, and cell biogenesis was detected, which contributes to the understanding of parasite biology. Conclusions/Significance: Large-scale RNA-Seq analysis using de novo assembly associated with genome-wide information for histone marks in the vicinity of gene models constitutes a new approach to transcriptome analysis that has not yet been explored in schistosomes. Importantly, all data have been consolidated into a UCSC Genome Browser search- and download-tool (http://schistosoma.usp.br/). This database provides new ways to explore the schistosome genome and transcriptome and will facilitate molecular research on this important parasite.
The aim of our study was to analyze the presence of 5-methyl-cytosine (5-mC) and 5-hydroxymethyl-cytosine (5-hmC) in the genome of crustacean Daphnia pulex. First, the presence of 5-mC and 5-hmC in genomic DNA was demonstrated by using antibodies specific to either 5-mC or 5-hmC. Then, analysis of 5-mC and 5-hmC using pairs of restriction enzymes with different sensitivity to methylation and hydroxymethylation confirmed the presence of both modifications in selected regions of three genes (Cox4, Cand2 and Ephx1). To get a detailed picture of 5-hmC distribution over the D. pulex genome, we performed 5-hmC enrichment and sequenced the enriched fraction using next generation sequencing and non-enriched library (input) as a control. Comparison of input and enriched libraries showed that 5-hmC in exons is twice as frequent as in introns. Functional analysis indicated that 5-hmC abundance is associated with genes that are involved in the adenylate cyclase-activating G-protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway, molting cycles, morphogenesis and cell fate determination. Genes that lack 5-hmC tend to be involved in the regulation of the transforming growth factor beta receptor signaling pathway and in many mRNA-related processes. Our results suggest that epigenetic modifications are present in the genome of D. pulex and most likely are involved in the regulation of gene expression of this crustacean.
Periodontal disease is the most widespread oral disease in dogs. Whilst the involvement of bacteria in the aetiology of periodontitis is well established the role of individual species and their complex interactions with the host is not well understood. The objective of this research was therefore to perform a longitudinal study in dogs to identify the changes that occur in subgingival bacterial communities during the transition from mild gingivitis to the early stages of periodontitis (<25% attachment loss). Subgingival plaque samples were collected from individual teeth of 52 miniature schnauzer dogs every six weeks for up to 60 weeks. The microbial composition of plaque samples was determined using 454-pyrosequencing of the 16S rDNA. A group of aerobic Gram negative species, including Bergeyella zoohelcum COT-186, Moraxella sp. COT-017, Pasteurellaceae sp. COT-080, and Neisseria shayeganii COT-090 decreased in proportion as teeth progressed to mild periodontitis. In contrast, there was less evidence that increases in the proportion of individual species were associated with the onset of periodontitis, although a number of species (particularly members of the Firmicutes) became more abundant as gingivitis severity increased. There were small increases in Shannon diversity, suggesting that plaque community membership remains relatively stable but that bacterial proportions change during progression into periodontitis. This is the first study to demonstrate the temporal dynamics of the canine oral microbiota; it showed that periodontitis results from a microbial succession predominantly characterised by a reduction of previously abundant, health associated taxa.
Investigations on fecal samples, vaginal swabs and sera from roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) in south-western France led to the detection of a non-classified Chlamydiaceae strain. A total of 85 vaginal swabs were sampled from roe deer that had been captured in 2012 (n = 42) and 2013 (n = 43). Using a Chlamydiaceae family-specific real-time PCR, only one vaginal swab out of the 42 samples done in 2012 tested positive and was subsequently identified as Chlamydia (C.) psittaci. In contrast, 6/43 vaginal swab samples were positive in 2013. Four of these positive samples came from a single group of roe deer, captured in the Fabas plain. Fecal samples from this group of 9 females were subsequently analyzed, with 6 of them testing positive with the Chlamydiaceae-specific PCR. All positive samples collected in 2013 were negative when re-tested with C. abortus-, C. pecorum- and C. suis-specific real-time PCR assays. Sera from this group of 9 females were analyzed with two immunoassays (recomLine and ELISA). Whereas intense positive reactions with C. pneumoniae antigens were observed for all sera when tested with the recomLine test, none was positive with the C. abortus specific ELISA test. Comparative sequence analysis of the 16S, 23S rRNA and ompA gene sequences from 3 animals, as well as the MLST analysis from 2 animals, showed that this roe deer group likely harbored the same bacterium related to members of the family Chlamydiaceae. Notably, the roe deer strain formed a separate entity different from the currently recognized chlamydial species, with C. trachomatis, C. suis and C. muridarum appearing as its closest relatives.
Highly pathogenic porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (HP-PRRSV) is a variant of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) which, in recent years, has caused heavy economic losses to swine-producing areas. Although current vaccines are somewhat prophylactic, they provide only limited protection. Furthermore, there are currently no effective anti-HP-PRRSV drugs. Consequently, it is necessary to develop novel antiviral strategies. In the present study, three recombinant pseudorabies viruses (PRV) expressing siRNAs against the ORF7 of HP-PRRSV strain HN1 (PRV gG-/siRNAN1, PRV gG-/siRNAN2, and PRV gG-/siRNAN3) were evaluated for the inhibition of HP-PRRSV replication. The results indicated that recombinant PRV-mediated siRNA could significantly decrease the replication of traditional PRRSV strain H1 at mRNA and protein levels in Marc-145 cells. Moreover, one recombinant PRV (PRV gG-/siRNAN2) was found to be inhibit the multiplication of HP-PRRSV strain HN1 effectively in Marc-145 cells at both the protein and ORF7 mRNA level. Twenty 21-day-old healthy weaned piglets were divided into four groups of five piglets each. Groups 1 and 2 were injected i.m. with PRV gG-/siRNAN2 and PRV gG-/siRNANeg individually. The piglets in group 3 were challenged with the HP-PRRSV control. After 24 h, the piglets in groups 1-3 were challenged i.m. with HP-PRRSV strain HN1, while those in group 4 were i.m. administered with PBS as a negative control. The results showed that HP-PRRSV in serum and lung samples from piglets was effectively inhibited by PRV gG-/siRNAN2. The clinical signs and gross lesions of piglets inoculated with PRV gG-/siRNAN2 were significantly less invasive than those of the PRV gG-/siRNANeg group and HP-PRRSV control group. These results showed that siRNAs mediated by recombinant PRV could effectively suppress HP-PRRSV replication in vitro as well as in vivo. RNAi mediated by recombinant PRV presents a potential novel method to prevent HP-PRRSV infections in swine. However, the protective efficiency of PRV gG-/siRNAN2 should be assessed in a larger number of piglets in future studies.
Exposure to ionizing radiation (IR) is inevitable to humans in real-life scenarios; the hazards of IR primarily stem from its mutagenic, carcinogenic, and cell killing ability. For many decades, extensive research has been conducted on the human cell responses to IR delivered at a low dose/low dose (LD) rate. These studies have shown that the molecular-, cellular-, and tissue-level responses are different after low doses of IR (LDIR) compared to those observed after a short-term high-dose IR exposure (HDIR).With the advent of high-throughput technologies in the late 1990s, such as DNA microarrays, changes in gene expression have also been found to be ubiquitous after LDIR. Very limited subset of genes has been shown to be consistently up-regulated by LDIR, including CDKN1A. Further research on the biological effects and mechanisms induced by IR in human cells demonstrated that the molecular and cellular processes, including transcriptional alterations, activated by LDIR are often related to protective responses and, sometimes, hormesis. Following LDIR, some distinct responses were observed, these included bystander effects, and adaptive responses. Changes in gene expression, not only at the level of mRNA, but also miRNA, have been found to crucially underlie these effects having implications for radiation protection purposes.
The genus Geobacillus comprises a group of Gram-positive thermophilic bacteria, including obligate aerobes, denitrifiers, and facultative anaerobes that can grow over a range of 45-75. °C. Originally classified as group five Bacillus spp., strains of Bacillus stearothermophilus came to prominence as contaminants of canned food and soon became the organism of choice for comparative studies of metabolism and enzymology between mesophiles and thermophiles. More recently, their catabolic versatility, particularly in the degradation of hemicellulose and starch, and rapid growth rates have raised their profile as organisms with potential for second-generation (lignocellulosic) biorefineries for biofuel or chemical production. The continued development of genetic tools to facilitate both fundamental investigation and metabolic engineering is now helping to realize this potential, for both metabolite production and optimized catabolism. In addition, this catabolic versatility provides a range of useful thermostable enzymes for industrial application.A number of genome-sequencing projects have been completed or are underway allowing comparative studies. These reveal a significant amount of genome rearrangement within the genus, the presence of large genomic islands encompassing all the hemicellulose utilization genes and a genomic island incorporating a set of long chain alkane monooxygenase genes. With G. +. C contents of 45-55%, thermostability appears to derive in part from the ability to synthesize protamine and spermine, which can condense DNA and raise its Tm.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) in blood can act as fingerprints to many diseases including cancer. However, detection of low levels of these miRNAs in blood demands for very sensitive techniques. Despite many reports available for miRNA detection, the available methodologies have drawbacks such as complexity, use of expensive enzymes, etc. We here report a new and simple electrochemical method to detect miRNAs by exploiting the intrinsic charges of the oligonucleotides and a simple amplification method with positively charged gold nanoparticles (AuNPs). Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was used to monitor the changes in capacitance upon miRNA binding without the need for redox markers. MiRNA detection was also obtained through measurements of open circuit potential (OCP) variations. We demonstrate a promising cost effective biosensor using both EIS and OCP with a detection limit of 1 fM, which can easily be expanded into miRNA/DNA microarray platforms.
RNA is an attractive biomolecule for biosensing and engineering applications due to its information storage capacity and ability to drive gene expression or knockdown. However, methods to link chemical signals to the production of specific RNAs are lacking. Here, we develop protease-responsive RNA polymerases (PRs) as a strategy to encode multiple specific proteolytic events in defined sequences of RNA in live mammalian cells. This work demonstrates that RNAP-based molecular recording devices can be deployed for multimodal analyses of biochemical activities or to trigger gene circuits using measured signaling events.
Background: The haemoflagellate Trypanosoma lewisi is a kinetoplastid parasite which, as it has been recently reported to cause human disease, deserves increased attention. Characteristic features of all kinetoplastid flagellates are a uniquely structured mitochondrial DNA or kinetoplast, comprised of a network of catenated DNA circles, and RNA editing of mitochondrial transcripts. The aim of this study was to describe the kinetoplast DNA of T. lewisi. Methods/Results: In this study, purified kinetoplast DNA from T. lewisi was sequenced using high-throughput sequencing in combination with sequencing of PCR amplicons. This allowed the assembly of the T. lewisi kinetoplast maxicircle DNA, which is a homologue of the mitochondrial genome in other eukaryotes. The assembly of 23,745 bp comprises the non-coding and coding regions. Comparative analysis of the maxicircle sequence of T. lewisi with Trypanosoma cruzi, Trypanosoma rangeli, Trypanosoma brucei and Leishmania tarentolae revealed that it shares 78 %, 77 %, 74 % and 66 % sequence identity with these parasites, respectively. The high GC content in at least 9 maxicircle genes of T. lewisi (ATPase6; NADH dehydrogenase subunits ND3, ND7, ND8 and ND9; G-rich regions GR3 and GR4; cytochrome oxidase subunit COIII and ribosomal protein RPS12) implies that their products may be extensively edited. A detailed analysis of the non-coding region revealed that it contains numerous repeat motifs and palindromes. Conclusions: We have sequenced and comprehensively annotated the kinetoplast maxicircle of T. lewisi. Our analysis reveals that T. lewisi is closely related to T. cruzi and T. brucei, and may share similar RNA editing patterns with them rather than with L. tarentolae. These findings provide novel insight into the biological features of this emerging human pathogen.
In this study, a novel aerobic microbial consortium for the complete detoxification of 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT) was developed using starch as a slow-releasing carbon source under nitrogen-fixing conditions. Aerobic TNT biodegradation coupled with microbial growth was effectively stimulated by the co-addition of starch and TNT under nitrogen-fixing conditions. The addition of starch with TNT led to TNT mineralization via ring cleavage without accumulation of any toxic by-products, indicating improved TNT detoxification by the co-addition of starch and TNT. Pyrosequencing targeting the bacterial 16S rRNA gene suggested that Methylophilus and Pseudoxanthomonas population were significantly stimulated by the co-addition of starch and TNT and that the Methylophilus population became predominant in the consortium. Together with our previous study regarding starch-stimulated RDX (hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine) degradation (Khan et al., J. Hazard. Mater. 287 (2015) 243-251), this work suggests that the co-addition of starch with a target explosive is an effective way to stimulate aerobic explosive degradation under nitrogen-fixing conditions for enhancing explosive detoxification.
Introduction: Dengue virus (DENV) is principally transmitted by the Aedes aegypti mosquito. To date, mosquito population control remains the key strategy for reducing the continuing spread of DENV. The focus on the development of new vector control strategies through an understanding of the mosquito-virus relationship is essential, especially targeting the midgut, which is the first mosquito organ exposed to DENV infection. Methodology: A cDNA library derived from female adult A. aegypti mosquito midgut cells was established using the switching mechanism at the 5’ end of the RNA transcript (SMART), in combination with a highly potent recombination machinery of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Gal4-based yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) assays were performed against DENV-2 proteins (E, prM, M, and NS1). Mammalian two-hybrid (M2H) and double immunofluorescence assays (IFA) were conducted to validate the authenticity of the three selected interactions. Results: The cDNA library was of good quality based on its transformation efficiency, cell density, titer, and the percentage of insert size. A total of 36 midgut proteins interacting with DENV-2 proteins were identified, some involved in nucleic acid transcription, oxidoreductase activity, peptidase activity, and ion binding. Positive outcomes were obtained from the three selected interactions validated using M2H and double IFA assays. Conclusions: The identified proteins have different biological activities that may aid in the virus replication pathway. Therefore, the midgut cDNA library is a valuable tool for identifying DENV-2 interacting proteins. The positive outcomes of the three selected proteins validated supported the quality of the cDNA library and the robustness of the Y2H mechanisms.
Introduction: The viral 2A sequence has become an attractive alternative to the traditional internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) for simultaneous over-expression of two genes and in combination with recombinant adeno-associated viruses (rAAV) has been used to manipulate gene expression in vitro. New method: To develop a rAAV construct in combination with the viral 2A sequence to allow long-term over-expression of the vgf gene and fluorescent marker gene for tracking of the transfected neurones in vivo. Results: Transient transfection of the AAV plasmid containing the vgf gene, viral 2A sequence and eGFP into SH-SY5Y cells resulted in eGFP fluorescence comparable to a commercially available reporter construct. This increase in fluorescent cells was accompanied by an increase in VGF mRNA expression. Infusion of the rAAV vector containing the vgf gene, viral 2A sequence and eGFP resulted in eGFP fluorescence in the hypothalamus of both mice and Siberian hamsters, 32 weeks post infusion. In situ hybridisation confirmed that the location of VGF mRNA expression in the hypothalamus corresponded to the eGFP pattern of fluorescence. Comparison with old method: The viral 2A sequence is much smaller than the traditional IRES and therefore allowed over-expression of the vgf gene with fluorescent tracking without compromising viral capacity. Conclusion: The use of the viral 2A sequence in the AAV plasmid allowed the simultaneous expression of both genes in vitro. When used in combination with rAAV it resulted in long-term over-expression of both genes at equivalent locations in the hypothalamus of both Siberian hamsters and mice, without any adverse effects.
Trypanosoma cruzi is a protozoan parasite of humans and animals, affecting 10 to 20 million people and innumerable animals, primarily in the Americas. Despite being the largest cause of infection-induced heart disease worldwide, even among the neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) T. cruzi is considered one of the least well understood and understudied. The genetic complexity of T. cruzi as well as the limited set of efficient techniques for genome engineering contribute significantly to the relative lack of progress in and understanding of this pathogen. Here, we adapted the CRISPR-Cas9 system for the genetic engineering of T. cruzi, demonstrating rapid and efficient knockout of multiple endogenous genes, including essential genes. We observed that in the absence of a template, repair of the Cas9-induced double-stranded breaks (DSBs) in T. cruzi occurs exclusively by microhomology-mediated end joining (MMEJ) with various-sized deletions. When a template for DNA repair is provided, DSB repair by homologous recombination is achieved at an efficiency several orders of magnitude higher than that in the absence of CRISPR-Cas9-induced DSBs. We also demonstrate the high multiplexing capacity of CRISPR-Cas9 in T. cruzi by knocking down expression of an enzyme gene family consisting of 65 members, resulting in a significant reduction of enzymatic product with no apparent off-target mutations. Lastly, we show that Cas9 can mediate disruption of its own coding sequence, rescuing a growth defect in stable Cas9-expressing parasites. These results establish a powerful new tool for the analysis of gene functions in T. cruzi, enabling the study of essential genes and their functions and analysis of the many large families of related genes that occupy a substantial portion of the T. cruzi genome. IMPORTANCE Trypanosoma cruzi, the causative agent of human Chagas disease, is the leading worldwide cause of infectious myocarditis. Diagnostics for the infection are relatively poor, treatment options are limited and of variable effectiveness, and suitable vaccines are nonexistent. The T. cruzi genome is replete with genes of unknown function and greatly expanded gene families with hundreds of members. The absence of facile genetic engineering tools, including RNA interference, for T. cruzi has prevented elucidation of gene and gene family function and the development of better infection prevention and control measures. In this study, we demonstrate that the CRISPR-Cas9 system is a versatile and powerful tool for genome manipulations in T. cruzi, bringing new opportunities for unraveling the functions of previously uncharacterized genes and how this human pathogen engages its large families of genes encoding surface proteins to interact with human and animal hosts.
Objective To construct and identify the eukaryotic vector expressing shRNA (Plasmid-1), which expressed the VEGF, C-myc, Survivin and hTERT gene at the same time. To detect its interference effects on the nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line (CNE-2Z) compared with single gene plasmid VEFG (Plasmid-2). Methods According to the sequence of VEGF, C-myc, Survivin and hTERT gene, we designed 2 oligonucleotide sequences and synthesized a complementary DNA chain, then inserted it into the eukaryotic vector expressing pGenesil 1. The cell proliferation activity was detected by MTT method. The interference efficacy on human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line (CNE-2Z) in the level of mRNA and protein were detected by RT-PCR and Western-bolt. The inhibitory effect of plasmid on tumor in nude mice was also observed in vivo. Results The restriction enzyme digestion and sequencing technologies confirmed the construction of recombinant eukaryotic vector expressing was correct. The plasmid was transfected into CNE-2Z cells, green fluorescence can be seen clearly in the single gene and multi gene transfected cells under fluorescent microscope. MTT showed that the proliferation of cell was inhibited, the invasive ability was decreased in vitro, and the inhibition effects of single gene plasmid on the growth and proliferation of cells were lower than multi gene. Real-time-PCR and Western-bolt confirmed that the expression of target gene was decreased in the level of mRNA and protein, and the interference effect of multi gene was better than the single gene. The nude mice experiment showed that the interference effect of shRNA plasmid on the growth of tumor cell was better than single gene plasmid Conclusion We constructed a shRNA plasmid encoded four different genes successfully. After transfected with nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells, it can interfere the expression of VEGF, C-myc, Survivin and hTERT gene at the same time. And the interference effect was better than silence VEGF alone. Out results may provide experimental basis for multi gene therapy in the treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Considerable progress towards an understanding of complex diseases has been made in recent years due to the development of high-throughput genotyping technologies. Using microarrays that contain millions of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), Genome Wide Association Studies (GWASs) have identified SNPs that are associated with many complex diseases or traits. For example, as of February 2015, 2111 association studies have identified 15,396 SNPs for various diseases and traits, with the number of identified SNP-disease/trait associations increasing rapidly in recent years. However, it has been difficult for researchers to understand disease risk from GWAS results. This is because most GWAS-identified SNPs are located in non-coding regions of the genome. It is important to consider that the GWAS-identified SNPs serve only as representatives for all SNPs in the same haplotype block, and it is equally likely that other SNPs in high linkage disequilibrium (LD) with the array-identified SNPs are causal for the disease. Because it was hoped that disease-associated coding variants would be identified if the true casual SNPs were known, investigators have expanded their analyses using LD calculation and fine-mapping. However, such analyses also identified risk-associated SNPs located in non-coding regions. Thus, the GWAS field has been left with the conundrum as to how a single-nucleotide change in a non-coding region could confer increased risk for a specific disease. One possible answer to this puzzle is that the variant SNPs cause changes in gene expression levels rather than causing changes in protein function. This review provides a description of (1) advances in genomic and epigenomic approaches that incorporate functional annotation of regulatory elements to prioritize the disease risk-associated SNPs that are located in non-coding regions of the genome for follow-up studies, (2) various computational tools that aid in identifying gene expression changes caused by the non-coding disease-associated SNPs, and (3) experimental approaches to identify target genes of, and study the biological phenotypes conferred by, non-coding disease-associated SNPs.
Introduction: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) is one of the most economically significant diseases in the bovine industry causing losses due to diarrhea, reproductive disorders, immunosuppression and mortalities. The aim of our investigation was to detect and subtype BVDV from calves on two dairy cattle and two buffalo farms in Ismailia province, Egypt as an indicator of BVDV infection status in the province. Methodology: A total of 298 blood samples were collected and tested using an optimized one-step, real-time multiplex Taqman-based RT-PCR. All the positive samples by the multiplex real-time RT-PCR were tested using conventional RT-PCR to amplify multiple areas of the genome for further phylogenetic analysis and subtyping. Results: Thirty one (10.4%) of the tested samples were positive for BVDV-1. Only three samples, all from a single dairy cattle farm, had enough viral RNA to be amplified by RT-PCR. The PCR products were sequenced and phylogenetic analysis revealed detection of BVDV-1b. The detected strain is closely related to worldwide BVDV-1b strains, making it difficult to trace its origin. Nucleotide and amino acid alignments of the E2 glycoprotein region of the detected strain with other BVDV-1b strains showed high divergence, with identity ranging from 81.3% to 93.6% and 85.3% to 93.6%, respectively. Conclusion: To our knowledge, this is the first report describing the circulation of BVDV-1b in Egyptian dairy cattle populations.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research. Gene knockout strategies, RNAi and rescue experiments are all employed to study mammalian gene function. However, the disadvantages of these approaches include: loss of function adaptation, reduced viability and gene overexpression that rarely matches endogenous levels. Here, we developed an endogenous gene knockdown/rescue strategy that combines RNAi selectivity with a highly efficient CRISPR directed recombinant Adeno-Associated Virus (rAAV) mediated gene targeting approach to introduce allele-specific mutations plus an allele-selective siRNA Sensitive (siSN) site that allows for studying gene mutations while maintaining endogenous expression and regulation of the gene of interest. CRISPR/Cas9 plus rAAV targeted gene-replacement and introduction of allele-specific RNAi sensitivity mutations in the CDK2 and CDK1 genes resulted in a >85% site-specific recombination of Neo-resistant clones versus ∼8% for rAAV alone. RNAi knockdown of wild type (WT) Cdk2 with siWT in heterozygotic knockin cells resulted in the mutant Cdk2 phenotype cell cycle arrest, whereas allele specific knockdown of mutant CDK2 with siSN resulted in a wild type phenotype. Together, these observations demonstrate the ability of CRISPR plus rAAV to efficiently recombine a genomic locus and tag it with a selective siRNA sequence that allows for allele-selective phenotypic assays of the gene of interest while it remains expressed and regulated under endogenous control mechanisms.
Background: Immunosuppressive viruses are frequently found as co-infections in the chicken industry, potentially causing serious economic losses. Because traditional molecular biology methods have limited detection ability, a rapid, high-throughput method for the differential diagnosis of these viruses is needed. The objective of this study is to develop a GenomeLab Gene Expression Profiler Analyser-based multiplex PCR method (GeXP-multiplex PCR) for simultaneous detection of eight immunosuppressive chicken viruses. Results: Using chimeric primers, eight such viruses, including Marek's disease virus (MDV), three subgroups of avian leucosis virus (ALV-A/B/J), reticuloendotheliosis virus (REV), infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV), chicken infectious anaemia virus (CIAV) and avian reovirus (ARV), were amplified and identified by their respective amplicon sizes. The specificity and sensitivity of the optimised GeXP-multiplex PCR assay were evaluated, and the data demonstrated that this technique could selectively amplify these eight viruses at a sensitivity of 100 copies/20 μl when all eight viruses were present. Among 300 examined clinical specimens, 190 were found to be positive for immunosuppressive viruses according to this novel assay. Conclusion: The GeXP-multiplex PCR assay is a high-throughput, sensitive and specific method for the detection of eight immunosuppressive viruses and can be used for differential diagnosis and molecular epidemiological surveys.
Background: X chromosome inactivation is the epigenetic silencing of the majority of the genes on one of the X chromosomes in XX therian mammals. In humans, approximately 15 % of genes consistently escape from this inactivation and another 15 % of genes vary between individuals or tissues in whether they are subject to, or escape from, inactivation. Multiple studies have provided inactivation status calls for a large subset of the genes on the X chromosome; however, these studies vary in which genes they were able to make calls for and in some cases which call they give a specific gene. Methods: This analysis aggregated three published studies that have examined X chromosome inactivation status of genes across the X chromosome, generating consensus calls and identifying discordancies. The impact of expression level and chromosomal location on X chromosome inactivation status was also assessed. Results: Overall, we assigned a consensus XCI status 639 genes, including 78 % of protein-coding genes expressed outside of the testes, with a lower frequency for non-coding RNA and testis-specific genes. Study-specific discordancies suggest that there may be instability of XCI during cell culture and also highlight study-specific variations in call type. We observe an enrichment of discordant genes at boundaries between genes subject to and escaping from inactivation. Conclusions: This study has compiled a comprehensive list of X-chromosome inactivation statuses for genes and also discovered some biases which will help guide future studies examining X-chromosome inactivation.
ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters make up a superfamily of transmembrane proteins that play a critical role in the development of drug resistance. This phenomenon is especially important in oncology, where superfamily member ABCG2 (also called BCRP - breast cancer resistance protein) is known to interact with dozens of anti-cancer agents that are ABCG2 substrates. In addition to the well-studied and well-reviewed list of cytotoxic and targeted agents that are substrates for the ABCG2 transporter, a growing body of work links ABCG2 to multiple photodynamic therapy (PDT) agents, and there is a limited body of evidence suggesting that ABCG2 may also play a role in resistance to radiation therapy. In addition, the focus of ABC transporter research in regards to therapeutic development has begun to shift in the past few years. The shift has been away from using pump inhibitors for reversing resistance, toward the development of therapeutic agents that are poor substrates for these efflux pump proteins. This approach may result in the development of drug regimens that circumvent ABC transporter-mediated resistance entirely. Here, it is our intention to review: 1) recent discoveries that further characterize the role of ABCG2 in oncology, and 2) advances in reversing and circumventing ABC transporter-mediated resistance to anti-cancer therapies.
0 Unported License.Reverse genetics, an approach to rescue infectious virus entirely from a cloned cDNA, has revolutionized the field of positive-strand RNA viruses, whose genomes have the same polarity as cellular mRNA. The cDNA-based reverse genetics system is a seminal method that enables direct manipulation of the viral genomic RNA, thereby generating recombinant viruses for molecular and genetic studies of both viral RNA elements and gene products in viral replication and pathogenesis. It also provides a valuable platform that allows the development of genetically defined vaccines and viral vectors for the delivery of foreign genes. For many positive-strand RNA viruses such as Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), however, the cloned cDNAs are unstable, posing a major obstacle to the construction and propagation of the functional cDNA. Here, the present report describes the strategic considerations in creating and amplifying a genetically stable full-length infectious JEV cDNA as a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) using the following general experimental procedures: viral RNA isolation, cDNA synthesis, cDNA subcloning and modification, assembly of a full-length cDNA, cDNA linearization, in vitro RNA synthesis, and virus recovery. This protocol provides a general methodology applicable to cloning full-length cDNA for a range of positive-strand RNA viruses, particularly those with a genome of >10 kb in length, into a BAC vector, from which infectious RNAs can be transcribed in vitro with a bacteriophage RNA polymerase.
Streptococcus is a diverse bacterial lineage. Species of this genus occupy a myriad of environments inside humans and other animals. Despite the elucidation of several of these habitats, many remain to be identified. Here, we explore a methodological approach to reveal unknown bacterial environments. Specifically, we inferred the phylogeny of the Mitis group by analyzing the sequences of eight genes. In addition, information regarding habitat use of species belonging to this group was obtained from the scientific literature. The oral cavity emerged as a potential, previously unknown, environment of Streptococcus massiliensis. This phylogeny-based prediction was confirmed by species-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. We propose employing a similar approach, i.e., use of bibliographic data and molecular phylogenetics as predictive methods, and species-specific PCR as confirmation, in order to reveal other unknown habitats in further bacterial taxa.
There are several sources of fluctuations in gene expression. Here we study the effects of time-dependent DNA replication, itself a tightly controlled process, on noise in mRNA levels. Stochastic simulations of constitutive and regulated gene expression are used to analyze the time-averaged mean and variation in each case. The simulations demonstrate that to capture mRNA distributions correctly, chromosome replication must be realistically modeled. Slow relaxation of mRNA from the low copy number steady state before gene replication to the high steady state after replication is set by the transcript's half-life and contributes significantly to the shape of the mRNA distribution. Consequently both the intrinsic kinetics and the gene location play an important role in accounting for the mRNA average and variance. Exact analytic expressions for moments of the mRNA distributions that depend on the DNA copy number, gene location, cell doubling time, and the rates of transcription and degradation are derived for the case of constitutive expression and subsequently extended to provide approximate corrections for regulated expression and RNA polymerase variability. Comparisons of the simulated models and analytical expressions to experimentally measured mRNA distributions show that they better capture the physics of the system than previous theories.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Horizontal gene transfer (HGT), or the transfer of genes between species, has been recognized recently as more pervasive than previously suspected. Here, we report evidence for an unprecedented degree of HGT into an animal genome, based on a draft genome of a tardigrade, Hypsibius dujardini. Tardigrades are microscopic eight-legged animals that are famous for their ability to survive extreme conditions. Genome sequencing, direct confirmation of physical linkage, and phylogenetic analysis revealed that a large fraction of the H. dujardini genome is derived from diverse bacteria as well as plants, fungi, and Archaea. We estimate that approximately one-sixth of tardigrade genes entered by HGT, nearly double the fraction found in the most extreme cases of HGT into animals known to date. Foreign genes have supplemented, expanded, and even replaced some metazoan gene families within the tardigrade genome. Our results demonstrate that an unexpectedly large fraction of an animal genome can be derived from foreign sources. We speculate that animals that can survive extremes may be particularly prone to acquiring foreign genes.
Background: Next-generation sequencing projects commonly commence by aligning reads to a reference genome assembly. While improvements in alignment algorithms and computational hardware have greatly enhanced the efficiency and accuracy of alignments, a significant percentage of reads often remain unmapped. Results: We generated de novo assemblies of unmapped reads from the DNA and RNA sequencing of the Bos taurus reference individual and identified the closest matching sequence to each contig by alignment to the NCBI non-redundant nucleotide database using BLAST. As expected, many of these contigs represent vertebrate sequence that is absent, incomplete, or misassembled in the UMD3.1 reference assembly. However, numerous additional contigs represent invertebrate species. Most prominent were several species of Spirurid nematodes and a blood-borne parasite, Babesia bigemina. These species are either not present in the US or are not known to infect taurine cattle and the reference animal appears to have been host to unsequenced sister species. Conclusions: We demonstrate the importance of exploring unmapped reads to ascertain sequences that are either absent or misassembled in the reference assembly and for detecting sequences indicative of parasitic or commensal organisms.
Total RNA isolated from the brain, muscle, liver, gonad, and intestinal tissues of grass carp was pooled to construct cDNA libraries. Using 454 pyrosequencing, a total of 738,604 high-quality reads were generated from the normalized cDNAs of the pooled individuals. Clustering and assembly of these reads produced a set of 37,086 all-unigene sequences after BLAST. Of these, 24,010 (64.74%) were annotated in the National Center for Biotechnology Information database, and 3715 simple sequence repeats and 2008 single nucleotide polymorphisms were identified in this EST dataset as potential molecular markers. This study provides new data for functional genomic and biological research on grass carp. The markers identified in this study will enrich the currently used molecular markers and facilitate marker-assisted selection in grass carp-breeding programs. These results also demonstrate that transcriptomic analysis based on 454 sequencing is a powerful tool for gene discovery and molecular marker development in non-model species.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play essential, conserved roles in diverse developmental processes through association with the miRNAinduced silencing complex (miRISC). Whereas fundamental insights into the mechanistic framework of miRNA biogenesis and target gene silencing have been established, posttranslational modifications that affect miRISC function are less well understood. Here we report that the conserved serine/threonine kinase, casein kinase II (CK2), promotes miRISC function in Caenorhabditis elegans. CK2 inactivation results in developmental defects that phenocopy loss of miRISC cofactors and enhances the loss of miRNA function in diverse cellular contexts. Whereas CK2 is dispensable for miRNA biogenesis and the stability of miRISC cofactors, it is required for efficient miRISC target mRNA binding and silencing. Importantly, we identify the conserved DEAD-box RNA helicase, CGH-1/DDX6, as a key CK2 substrate within miRISC and demonstrate phosphorylation of a conserved N-terminal serine is required for CGH-1 function in the miRNA pathway.
Described herein are the syntheses and photophysical characterization of three novel cyanotryptophans, and their efficient incorporation into proteins as fluorescent probes. Photophysical characteristics indicated that each was significantly brighter and red-shifted in fluorescence emission relative to tryptophan. Each analogue was used to activate a suppressor tRNA transcript and was incorporated with good efficiency into two different positions (Trp22 and Trp74) of Escherichia coli dihydrofolate reductase (ecDHFR). The Trp analogues could be monitored selectively in the presence of multiple native Trp residues in DHFR. 6-CNTrp (A) formed an efficient Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) pair with l-(7-hydroxycoumarin-4-yl)ethylglycine (HCO, D) at position 17. Further, 6-CNTrp (A) was incorporated into two DNA binding proteins, including the Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I and an RNA recognition motif (RRM2) of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein L-like (hnRNP LL). Using these proteins, we demonstrated the use of FRET involving A as a fluorescence donor and benzo[g]quinazoline-2,4-(1H,3H)-dione 2′-deoxyriboside (Tf) or 4-aminobenzo[g]quinazoline-2-one 2′-deoxyriboside (Cf) as fluorescent acceptors to study the binding interaction of the Klenow fragment with duplex DNA oligomers (labeled with Tf), or the domain-specific association between hnRNP LL and the BCL2 i-motif DNA (labeled with Cf). Thus, the non-natural amino acid could be used as a FRET partner for studying protein-nucleic acid interactions. Together, these findings demonstrate the potential utility of 6-CNTrp (A) as a fluorescence donor for the study of protein conformational events.
Viruses of the Enterovirus genus of picornaviruses, including poliovirus, coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3), and human rhinovirus, commandeer the functions of host cell proteins to aid in the replication of their small viral genomic RNAs during infection. One of these host proteins is a cellular DNA repair enzyme known as 5ʹ tyrosyl-DNA phosphodiesterase 2 (TDP2). TDP2 was previously demonstrated to mediate the cleavage of a unique covalent linkage between a viral protein (VPg) and the 5ʹ end of picornavirus RNAs. Although VPg is absent from actively translating poliovirus mRNAs, the removal of VPg is not required for the in vitro translation and replication of the RNA. However, TDP2 appears to be excluded from replication and encapsidation sites during peak times of poliovirus infection of HeLa cells, suggesting a role for TDP2 during the viral replication cycle. Using a mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line lacking TDP2, we found that TDP2 is differentially required among enteroviruses. Our single-cycle viral growth analysis shows that CVB3 replication has a greater dependency on TDP2 than does poliovirus or human rhinovirus replication. During infection, CVB3 protein accumulation is undetectable (by Western blot analysis) in the absence of TDP2, whereas poliovirus protein accumulation is reduced but still detectable. Using an infectious CVB3 RNA with a reporter, CVB3 RNA could still be replicated in the absence of TDP2 following transfection, albeit at reduced levels. Overall, these results indicate that TDP2 potentiates viral replication during enterovirus infections of cultured cells, making TDP2 a potential target for antiviral development for picornavirus infections. IMPORTANCE Picornaviruses are one of the most prevalent groups of viruses that infect humans and livestock worldwide. These viruses include the human pathogens belonging to the Enterovirus genus, such as poliovirus, coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3), and human rhinovirus. Diseases caused by enteroviruses pose a major problem for public health and have significant economic impact. Poliovirus can cause paralytic poliomyelitis. CVB3 can cause hand, foot, and mouth disease and myocarditis. Human rhinovirus is the causative agent of the common cold, which has a severe economic impact due to lost productivity and severe health consequences in individuals with respiratory dysfunction, such as asthma. By gaining a better understanding of the enterovirus replication cycle, antiviral drugs against enteroviruses may be developed. Here, we report that the absence of the cellular enzyme TDP2 can significantly decrease viral yields of poliovirus, CVB3, and human rhinovirus, making TDP2 a potential target for an antiviral against enterovirus infections.
Puccinellia tenuiflora is an alkaline salt-tolerant monocot found in saline-alkali soil in China. To identify the genes which are determining the higher tolerance of P. tenuiflora compared to bicarbonate sensitive species, we examined the responses of P. tenuiflora and a related bicarbonate-sensitive Poeae plant, Poa annua, to two days of 20 mM NaHCO3 stress by RNA-seq analysis. We obtained 28 and 38 million reads for P. tenuiflora and P. annua, respectively. For each species, the reads of both unstressed and stressed samples were combined for de novo assembly of contigs. We obtained 77,329 contigs for P. tenuiflora and 115,335 contigs for P. annua. NaHCO3 stress resulted in greater than two-fold absolute expression value changes in 157 of the P. tenuiflora contigs and 1090 of P. annua contigs. Homologs of the genes involved in Fe acquisition, which are important for the survival of plants under alkaline stress, were up-regulated in P. tenuiflora and down-regulated in P. annua. The smaller number of the genes differentially regulated in P. tenuiflora suggests that the genes regulating bicarbonate tolerance are constitutively expressed in P. tenuiflora.
We characterized DNA methylation quantitative trait loci (mQTLs) in a large collection (n = 166) of human fetal brain samples spanning 56-166 d post-conception, identifying >16,000 fetal brain mQTLs. Fetal brain mQTLs were primarily cis-acting, enriched in regulatory chromatin domains and transcription factor binding sites, and showed substantial overlap with genetic variants that were also associated with gene expression in the brain. Using tissue from three distinct regions of the adult brain (prefrontal cortex, striatum and cerebellum), we found that most fetal brain mQTLs were developmentally stable, although a subset was characterized by fetal-specific effects. Fetal brain mQTLs were enriched amongst risk loci identified in a recent large-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) of schizophrenia, a severe psychiatric disorder with a hypothesized neurodevelopmental component. Finally, we found that mQTLs can be used to refine GWAS loci through the identification of discrete sites of variable fetal brain methylation associated with schizophrenia risk variants.
Whereas several mammalian proteins can restrict the replication of HIV-1 and other viruses, these are often not expressed in relevant target cells. A potential method to inhibit viral replication might therefore be to use synthetic transcription factors to induce restriction factor expression. In particular, mutants of the RNA-guided DNA binding protein Cas9 that have lost their DNA cleavage activity could be used to recruit transcription activation domains to specific promoters. However, initial experiments revealed only weak activation unless multiple promoter-specific single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) were used. Recently, the recruitment of multiple transcription activation domains by a single sgRNA, modified to contain MS2-derived stem loops that recruit fusion proteins consisting of the MS2 coat protein linked to transcription activation domains, was reported to induce otherwise silent cellular genes. Here, we demonstrate that such "synergistic activation mediators" can induce the expression of two restriction factors, APOBEC3G (A3G) and APOBEC3B (A3B), in human cells that normally lack these proteins. We observed modest activation of endogenous A3G or A3B expression using single sgRNAs but high expression when two sgRNAs were used. Whereas the induced A3G and A3B proteins both blocked infection by an HIV-1 variant lacking a functional vif gene by inducing extensive dC-to-dU editing, only the induced A3B protein inhibited wild-type HIV-1. These data demonstrate that Cas9-derived transcriptional activators have the potential to be used for screens for endogenous genes that affect virus replication and raise the possibility that synthetic transcription factors might prove clinically useful if efficient delivery mechanisms could be developed.
INTRODUCTION: CADASIL (Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy) is a hereditary small vessel disease caused by mutations in the NOTCH3 gene, leading to toxic NOTCH3 protein accumulation in the small- to medium sized arterioles. The accumulation is systemic but most pronounced in the brain vasculature where it leads to clinical symptoms of recurrent stroke and dementia. There is no therapy for CADASIL, and therapeutic development is hampered by a lack of feasible clinical outcome measures and biomarkers, both in mouse models and in CADASIL patients. To facilitate pre-clinical therapeutic interventions for CADASIL, we aimed to develop a novel, translational CADASIL mouse model. RESULTS: We generated transgenic mice in which we overexpressed the full length human NOTCH3 gene from a genomic construct with the archetypal c.544C > T, p.Arg182Cys mutation. The four mutant strains we generated have respective human NOTCH3 RNA expression levels of 100, 150, 200 and 350 % relative to endogenous mouse Notch3 RNA expression. Immunohistochemistry on brain sections shows characteristic vascular human NOTCH3 accumulation in all four mutant strains, with human NOTCH3 RNA expression levels correlating with age at onset and progression of NOTCH3 accumulation. This finding was the basis for developing the 'NOTCH3 score', a quantitative measure for the NOTCH3 accumulation load. This score proved to be a robust and sensitive method to assess the progression of NOTCH3 accumulation, and a feasible biomarker for pre-clinical therapeutic testing. CONCLUSIONS: This novel, translational CADASIL mouse model is a suitable model for pre-clinical testing of therapeutic strategies aimed at delaying or reversing NOTCH3 accumulation, using the NOTCH3 score as a biomarker.
The ability to form memories is a prerequisite for an organism's behavioral adaptation to environmental changes. At the molecular level, the acquisition and maintenance of memory requires changes in chromatin modifications. In an effort to unravel the epigenetic network underlying both short- and long-term memory, we examined chromatin modification changes in two distinct mouse brain regions, two cell types and three time points before and after contextual learning. We found that histone modifications predominantly changed during memory acquisition and correlated surprisingly little with changes in gene expression. Although long-lasting changes were almost exclusive to neurons, learning-related histone modification and DNA methylation changes also occurred in non-neuronal cell types, suggesting a functional role for non-neuronal cells in epigenetic learning. Finally, our data provide evidence for a molecular framework of memory acquisition and maintenance, wherein DNA methylation could alter the expression and splicing of genes involved in functional plasticity and synaptic wiring.
Schistosomiasis affects millions of people in developing countries and is responsible for more than 200,000 deaths annually. Because of toxicity and limited spectrum of activity of alternatives, there is effectively only one drug, praziquantel, available for its treatment. Recent data suggest that drug resistance could soon be a problem. There is therefore the need to identify new drug targets and develop drugs for the treatment of schistosomiasis. Analysis of the Schistosoma mansoni genome sequence for proteins involved in detoxification processes found that it encodes a single cytochrome P450 (CYP450) gene. Here we report that the 1452 bp open reading frame has a characteristic heme-binding region in its catalytic domain with a conserved heme ligating cysteine, a hydrophobic leader sequence present as the membrane interacting region, and overall structural conservation. The highest sequence identity to human CYP450s is 22%. Double stranded RNA (dsRNA) silencing of S. mansoni (Sm)CYP450 in schistosomula results in worm death. Treating larval or adult worms with antifungal azole CYP450 inhibitors results in worm death at low micromolar concentrations. In addition, combinations of SmCYP450-specific dsRNA and miconazole show additive schistosomicidal effects supporting the hypothesis that SmCYP450 is the target of miconazole. Treatment of developing S. mansoni eggs with miconazole results in a dose dependent arrest in embryonic development. Our results indicate that SmCYP450 is essential for worm survival and egg development and validates it as a novel drug target. Preliminary structure-activity relationship suggests that the 1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-2-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)ethan-1-ol moiety of miconazole is necessary for activity and that miconazole activity and selectivity could be improved by rational drug design.
Background: Sugarcane is one of the major crops worldwide. It is cultivated in over 100 countries on 22 million ha. The complex genetic architecture and the lack of a complete genomic sequence in sugarcane hamper the adoption of molecular approaches to study its physiology and to develop new varieties. Investments on the development of new sugarcane varieties have been made to maximize sucrose yield, a trait dependent on photosynthetic capacity. However, detailed studies on sugarcane leaves are scarce. In this work, we report the first molecular and physiological characterization of events taking place along a leaf developmental gradient in sugarcane. Results: Photosynthetic response to CO2 indicated divergence in photosynthetic capacity based on PEPcase activity, corroborated by activity quantification (both in vivo and in vitro) and distinct levels of carbon discrimination on different segments along leaf length. Additionally, leaf segments had contrasting amount of chlorophyll, nitrogen and sugars. RNA-Seq data indicated a plethora of biochemical pathways differentially expressed along the leaf. Some transcription factors families were enriched on each segment and their putative functions corroborate with the distinct developmental stages. Several genes with higher expression in the middle segment, the one with the highest photosynthetic rates, were identified and their role in sugarcane productivity is discussed. Interestingly, sugarcane leaf segments had a different transcriptional behavior compared to previously published data from maize. Conclusion: This is the first report of leaf developmental analysis in sugarcane. Our data on sugarcane is another source of information for further studies aiming to understand and/or improve C4 photosynthesis. The segments used in this work were distinct in their physiological status allowing deeper molecular analysis. Although limited in some aspects, the comparison to maize indicates that all data acquired on one C4 species cannot always be easily extrapolated to other species. However, our data indicates that some transcriptional factors were segment-specific and the sugarcane leaf undergoes through the process of suberizarion, photosynthesis establishment and senescence.
Systemic autoinflammatory diseases are driven by abnormal activation of innate immunity. Herein we describe a new disease caused by high-penetrance heterozygous germline mutations in TNFAIP3, which encodes the NF-B regulatory protein A20, in six unrelated families with early-onset systemic inflammation. The disorder resembles Behçet's disease, which is typically considered a polygenic disorder with onset in early adulthood. A20 is a potent inhibitor of the NF-B signaling pathway. Mutant, truncated A20 proteins are likely to act through haploinsufficiency because they do not exert a dominant-negative effect in overexpression experiments. Patient-derived cells show increased degradation of IBα and nuclear translocation of the NF-B p65 subunit together with increased expression of NF-B-mediated proinflammatory cytokines. A20 restricts NF-B signals via its deubiquitinase activity. In cells expressing mutant A20 protein, there is defective removal of Lys63-linked ubiquitin from TRAF6, NEMO and RIP1 after stimulation with tumor necrosis factor (TNF). NF-B-dependent proinflammatory cytokines are potential therapeutic targets for the patients with this disease.
The contribution of repetitive elements to quantitative human traits is largely unknown. Here we report a genome-wide survey of the contribution of short tandem repeats (STRs), which constitute one of the most polymorphic and abundant repeat classes, to gene expression in humans. Our survey identified 2,060 significant expression STRs (eSTRs). These eSTRs were replicable in orthogonal populations and expression assays. We used variance partitioning to disentangle the contribution of eSTRs from that of linked SNPs and indels and found that eSTRs contribute 10-15% of the cis heritability mediated by all common variants. Further functional genomic analyses showed that eSTRs are enriched in conserved regions, colocalize with regulatory elements and may modulate certain histone modifications. By analyzing known genome-wide association study (GWAS) signals and searching for new associations in 1,685 whole genomes from deeply phenotyped individuals, we found that eSTRs are enriched in various clinically relevant conditions. These results highlight the contribution of STRs to the genetic architecture of quantitative human traits.
The aim of this study was to provide the experimental basis for effective prevention and treatment of obliterative bronchiolitis (OB) by studying the changes on the microRNA (miRNA) expression profile after an orthotopic tracheal transplantation (OTT) simulating lung transplantation (LT). The OTT was performed on inbred rats to establish an OB animal model simulating LT, which was confirmed successful through pathological examination after 4 weeks. A miRNA microarray was used to screen for the most significantly differentially expressed miRNA in the OB tissues of donor transplanted trachea and real-time quantitative PCR was then used to validate the reliability of the microarray results. The microarray detection obtained 29 OB-related miRNAs, composed of 15 and 14 significantly up- and down-regulated miRNAs, respectively, among which miR-146a, miR-155, and miR-451, whose function is involved in the immune and inflammatory reactions, were subjected to relative quantitation research. The LT-simulated OTT-induced OB showed significantly differential expressions of multiple miRNAs, among which miR-146a and miR-155 were highly expressed, while miR-451 was lowly expressed, suggesting that these miRNAs may play an important regulatory role in the OB pathological process after LT.
funpecrp.com.br. The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanisms of erythropoietin (EPO)-transfected umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (UC-MSCs) in the treatment of rats with ischemic limb and provide a theoretical basis for optimization of UC-MSC transplantation. Sixty SD rats were randomly divided into four groups: ischemia control group, EPO treatment group, UC-MSCs treatment group, EPO gene transfected UC-MSC treatment groups. (15 rats in each group). The left femoral hind artery and its branches were ligated to develop hind limb ischemia in male SD rats. Five points were injected in the adductor and gastrocnemius muscles with medium, cDNA3-EPO gene DNA-liposome complex solution or UC-MSCs in control groups and EPO-transfected-UC-MSCs in the experimental group. Western blot confirmed in vitro EPO expression in EPO gene-transfected human UC-MSCs. Arterial angiography at 4 weeks post-transplantation showed no development of blood vessels in the control group and moderate angiogenesis in the EPO- and UC-MSC-treated groups. However, a large number of freshmen angiogenesis and abundant collateral circulation was observed in the EPO-transfected-UC-MSC-treated experimental group. Rat capillary density measurement results confirmed the angiographs quantitatively and showed no statistically significant difference between EPO- and UC-MSC-treated groups (P > 0.05). CM-Dil-positive cell numbers were (0 ± 0.00), (0 ± 0.00), (32.46 ± 6.68), (59.64 ± 10.38)/HP (P < 0.05). RT-PCR detected that the in vivo mRNA expression of the EPO gene was relatively higher in the EPO-transfected-UC-MSC-treated group than the EPO-treated group (0.79 ± 0.06 vs 0.19 ± 0.04, P < 0.05). Thus, this study revealed that using UC-MSCs as vector in gene therapy for limb ischemia facilitates stable and effective expression of EPO compared to direct gene injection.
funpecrp.com.br. Determination of gene expression is an important tool to study biological processes and relies on the quality of the extracted RNA. Changes in gene expression profiles may be directly related to mutations in regulatory DNA sequences or alterations in DNA cytosine methylation, which is an epigenetic mark. Correlation of gene expression with DNA sequence or epigenetic mark polymorphism is often desirable; for this, a robust protocol to isolate high-quality RNA and DNA simultaneously from the same sample is required. Although commercial kits and protocols are available, they are mainly optimized for animal tissues and, in general, restricted to RNA or DNA extraction, not both. In the present study, we describe an efficient and accessible method to extract both RNA and DNA simultaneously from the same sample of various plant tissues, using small amounts of starting material. The protocol was efficient in the extraction of high-quality nucleic acids from several Arabidopsis thaliana tissues (e.g., leaf, inflorescence stem, flower, fruit, cotyledon, seedlings, root, and embryo) and from other tissues of non-model plants, such as Avicennia schaueriana (Acanthaceae), Theobroma cacao (Malvaceae), Paspalum notatum (Poaceae), and Sorghum bicolor (Poaceae). The obtained nucleic acids were used as templates for downstream analyses, such as mRNA sequencing, quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction, bisulfite treatment, and others; the results were comparable to those obtained with commercial kits. We believe that this protocol could be applied to a broad range of plant species, help avoid technical and sampling biases, and facilitate several RNA- and DNA-dependent analyses.
The thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) riboswitch is a cis-regulatory element in mRNA that modifies gene expression in response to TPP concentration. Its specificity is dependent upon conformational changes that take place within its aptamer domain. Here, the role of tertiary interactions in ligand binding was studied at the single-molecule level by combined force spectroscopy and Förster resonance energy transfer (smFRET), using an optical trap equipped for simultaneous smFRET. The ‘Force-FRET’ approach directly probes secondary and tertiary structural changes during folding, including events associated with binding. Concurrent transitions observed in smFRET signals and RNA extension revealed differences in helix-arm orientation between two previously-identified ligand-binding states that had been undetectable by spectroscopy alone. Our results show that the weaker binding state is able to bind to TPP, but is unable to form a tertiary docking interaction that completes the binding process. Long-range tertiary interactions stabilize global riboswitch structure and confer increased ligand specificity.
Therapeutic nucleic acids are powerful molecules for shutting down protein expression. However, their cellular uptake is poor and requires transport vectors, such as cationic polymers. Of these, poly(ethylenimine) (PEI) has been shown to be an efficient vehicle for nucleic acid transport into cells. However, cytotoxicity has been a major hurdle in the development of PEI-DNA complexes as clinically viable therapeutics. We have synthesized antisense-polymer conjugates, where the polymeric block is completely monodisperse and sequence-controlled. Depending on the polymer sequence, these can self-assemble to produce micelles of very low polydispersity. The introduction of linear poly(ethylenimine) to these micelles leads to aggregation into size-defined PEI-mediated superstructures. Subsequently, both cellular uptake and gene silencing are greatly enhanced over extended periods compared to antisense alone, while at the same time cellular cytotoxicity remains very low. In contrast, gene silencing is not enhanced with antisense polymer conjugates that are not able to self-assemble into micelles. Thus, using antisense precision micelles, we are able to achieve significant transfection and knockdown with minimal cytotoxicity at much lower concentrations of linear PEI then previously reported. Consequently, a conceptual solution to the problem of antisense or siRNA delivery is to self-assemble these molecules into 'gene-like' micelles with high local charge and increased stability, thus reducing the amount of transfection agent needed for effective gene silencing.
The aim of this study was to investigate the clinical and genetic profiles of mitochondrial disease resulting from deficiencies in the respiratory chain complex III. Three patients, aged between 8 months and 12 years, were recruited for this study. The activities of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes in the peripheral leucocytes were spectrophotometrically measured. The entire mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence was analyzed. Samples obtained from the three patients and their families were subjected to restriction fragment length polymorphism and gene sequencing analyses. mtDNA copy numbers of all patients and their mothers were analyzed. The patients displayed nervous system impairment, including motor and mental developmental delay, hypotonia, and motor regression. Two patients also suffered from Leigh syndrome. Assay of the mitochondrial respiratory chain enzymes revealed an isolated complex III deficiency in the three patients. The m.3243 A>G mutation was detected in all patients and their mothers. The mutation loads were 48.3, 57.2, and 45.5% in the patients, and 20.5, 16.4, and 23.6% in their respective mothers. The leukocyte mtDNA copy numbers of the patients and their mothers were within the control range. The clinical manifestation and genetics were observed to be very heterogeneous. Patient carrying an m.3243 A>G mutation may biochemically display a deficiency in the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex III.
AIM: To investigate the roles and interactions of mutT homolog (MTH)-1 and hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α in human colorectal cancer (CRC). METHODS: The expression and distribution of HIF- 1α and MTH-1 proteins were detected in human CRC tissues by immunohistochemistry and quantitative realtime polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). SW480 and HT-29 cells were exposed to normoxia or hypoxia. Protein and mRNA levels of HIF-1α and MTH-1 were analyzed by western blotting and qRT-PCR, respectively. In order to determine the effect of HIF-1α on the expression of MTH-1 and the amount of 8-oxodeoxyguanosine triphosphate (dGTP) in SW480 and HT-29 cells, HIF-1α was silenced with small interfering RNA (siRNA). Growth studies were conducted on cells with HIF-1α inhibition using a xenograft tumor model. Finally, MTH-1 protein was detected by western blotting in vivo. RESULTS: High MTH-1 mRNA expression was detected in 64.2% of cases (54/84), and this was significantly correlated with tumor stage (P = 0.023) and size (P = 0.043). HIF-1α protein expression was correlated significantly with MTH-1 expression (R = 0.640; P < 0.01) in human CRC tissues. Hypoxic stress induced mRNA and protein expression of MTH-1 in SW480 and HT-29 cells. Inhibition of HIF-1α by siRNA decreased the expression of MTH-1 and led to the accumulation of 8-oxo-dGTP in SW480 and HT-29 cells. In the in vivo xenograft tumor model, expression of MTH-1 was decreased in the HIF-1α siRNA group, and the tumor volume was much smaller than that in the mock siRNA group. CONCLUSION: MTH-1 expression in CRC cells was upregulated via HIF-1α in response to hypoxic stress, emphasizing the crucial role of HIF-1α-induced MTH-1 in tumor growth.
funpecrp.com.br. Sturgeons (Acipenser schrenckii) are of high evolutionary, economic, and conservation value, and caviar isone of the most valuable animal food products in the world. The Illumina HiSeq2000 sequencing platform was used to construct testicular and ovarian transcriptomes to identify genes involved in reproduction and sex determination in A. schrenckii. A total of 122,381 and 114,527 unigenes were obtained in the testicular and ovarian transcriptomes, respectively, with average lengths of 748 and 697 bp. A total of 46,179 genes were matched to the non-redundant nr database. GO (31,266), KEGG (39,712), and COG analyses (20,126) were performed to identify potential genes and their functions. Twenty-six gene families involved in reproduction and sex determination were identified from the A. schrenckii testicular and ovarian transcriptomes based on functional annotation of non-redundant transcripts and comparisons with the published literature. Furthermore, 1309 unigenes showed significant differences between the testes and ovaries, including 782 genes that were up-regulated in the testes and 527 that were upregulated in the ovaries. Eleven genes were involved in reproduction and sex determination mechanisms. Furthermore, 19,065 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were identified in the expressed sequence tagged dataset, and 190,863 and 193,258 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were obtained from the testicular and ovarian transcriptomic databases, respectively. This study provides new sequence information about A. schrenckii, which will provide a basis for the further study of reproduction and sex determination mechanisms in Acipenser species. The potential SSR and SNP markers isolated from the transcriptome may shed light on the evolution and molecular ecology of Acipenser species.
Published by Elsevier B.V. Inefficient cytosolic delivery and vector toxicity contribute to the limited use of antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) and siRNA as therapeutics. As anthrax toxin (Atx) accesses the cytosol, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the potential of disarmed Atx to deliver either ASOs or siRNA. We hypothesized that this delivery strategy would facilitate improved transfection efficiency while eliminating the toxicity seen for many vectors due to membrane destabilization. Atx complex formation with ASOs or siRNA was achieved via the in-frame fusion of either Saccharomyces cerevisiae GAL4 or Homo sapien sapien PKR (respectively) to a truncation of Atx lethal factor (LFn), which were used with Atx protective antigen (PA). Western immunoblotting confirmed the production of: LFN-GAL4, LFn-PKR and PA which were detected at ~ 45.9 kDa, ~ 37 kDa, and ~ 83 kDa respectively and small angle neutron scattering confirmed the ability of PA to form an annular structure with a radius of gyration of 7.0 ± 1.0 nm when placed in serum. In order to form a complex with LFn-GAL4, ASOs were engineered to contain a double-stranded region, and a cell free in vitro translation assay demonstrated that no loss of antisense activity above 30 pmol ASO was evident. The in vitro toxicity of both PA:LFn-GAL4:ASO and PA:LFn-PKR:siRNA complexes was low (IC50 > 100 μg/mL in HeLa and Vero cells) and subcellular fractionation in conjunction with microscopy confirmed the detection of LFn-GAL4 or LFn-PKR in the cytosol. Syntaxin5 (Synt5) was used as a model target gene to determine pharmacological activity. The PA:LFn-GAL4:ASO complexes had transfection efficiency approximately equivalent to Nucleofection® over a variety of ASO concentrations (24 h post-transfection) and during a 72 h time course. In HeLa cells, at 200 pmol ASO (with PA:LFN-GAL4), 5.4 ± 2.0% Synt5 expression was evident relative to an untreated control after 24 h. Using 200 pmol ASOs, Nucleofection® reduced Synt5 expression to 8.1 ± 2.1% after 24 h. PA:LFn-GAL4:ASO transfection of non- or terminally-differentiated THP-1 cells and Vero cells resulted in 35.2 ± 19.1%, 36.4 ± 1.8% and 22.9 ± 6.9% (respectively) Synt5 expression after treatment with 200 pmol of ASO and demonstrated versatility. Nucleofection® with Stealth RNAi™ siRNA reduced HeLa Synt5 levels to 4.6 ± 6.1% whereas treatment with the PA:LFn-PKR:siRNA resulted in 8.5 ± 3.4% Synt5 expression after 24 h (HeLa cells). These studies report for the first time an ASO and RNAi delivery system based upon protein toxin architecture that is devoid of polycations. This system may utilize regulated membrane back-fusion for the cytosolic delivery of ASOs and siRNA, which would account for the lack of toxicity observed. High delivery efficiency suggests further in vivo evaluation is warranted.
funpecrp.com.br.Heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) is an important molecular chaperone required for proper folding of cellular proteins, and thus, it plays an essential role in protecting cells from damage during stress. In this study, an HSP90 cDNA designated PmHSP90 was cloned from the mantle tissue of the pearl oyster Pinctada martensii using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) coupled with the rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) approach. PmHSP90 cDNA was 2584 bp in length, including an open reading frame of 2160 bp, which encodes a polypeptide of 719 amino acid residues, with predicted molecular mass and isoelectric point of 83.0 kDa and 4.87, respectively. Multiple-sequence alignment indicated that HSP90 is highly conserved among species, and PmHSP90 showed 89% sequence identity to Crassostrea gigas HSP90. Five conserved amino acid blocks defined as HSP90 protein family signatures were also observed in PmHSP90, indicating that PmHSP90 may be a cytosolic member of the HSP90 family. Expression levels of PmHSP90 were detected in various tissues of P. martensii and in hemocytes under three different stress conditions using quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR). The results demonstrate that PmHSP90 mRNA is constitutively expressed in all the tested tissues and may be involved in the immune response against thermal stress, lipopolysaccharide stimulation, and nucleus insertion operations. Studies on PmHSP90 are a valuable source to further explore the immune system in pearl oysters during the production of pearls, and may enhance our knowledge of molluscan innate immunity.
Background: Pandoraea spp. are recently discovered bacteria, mainly recovered from cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, but their epidemiology and clinical significance are not well known. We describe an epidemic spread of Pandoraea pulmonicola from 2009 in our CF center, involving 6 out of 243 CF patients. Methods: Bacterial identification used amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA), MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) and 16S rDNA gene sequencing. The clonal link between strains was assessed with pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) using XbaI. Clinical data were gathered for all patients. Results: The index case was chronically colonized since 2000. The main hypothesis for this bacterial spread was a droplet cross-transmission, due to preventive measures not being strictly followed. Antibiotic susceptibility testing revealed resistance to beta-lactams, ciprofloxacin and colistin. However, there was susceptibility to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. All patients were chronically colonized with Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and the acquisition of P. pulmonicola resulted in chronic colonization in all patients. Three patients died, and two patients remained clinically stable, whereas one patient had a decline in lung function. Conclusions: This study, which is the first to describe an epidemic spread of P. pulmonicola, notes the potential transmissibility of this bacterial species and the need for infection control measures.
In vertebrate species, the innate immune system down-regulates protein translation in response to viral infection through the action of the double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-activated protein kinase (PKR). In some teleost species another protein kinase, Z-DNA-dependent protein kinase (PKZ), plays a similar role but instead of dsRNA binding domains, PKZ has Zα domains. These domains recognize the left-handed conformer of dsDNA and dsRNA known as Z-DNA/Z-RNA. Cyprinid herpesvirus 3 infects common and koi carp, which have PKZ, and encodes the ORF112 protein that itself bears a Zα domain, a putative competitive inhibitor of PKZ. Here we present the crystal structure of ORF112-Zα in complex with an 18-bpCpGDNA repeat, at 1.5 Å. We demonstrate that the bound DNA is in the left-handed conformation and identify key interactions for the specificity of ORF112. Localization of ORF112 protein in stress granules induced in Cyprinid herpesvirus 3-infected fish cells suggests a functional behavior similar to that of Zα domains of the interferon-regulated, nucleic acid surveillance proteins ADAR1 and DAI.
In the present study, the role of lncRNAs in response to radiation-induced DNA damage and oxidative stress were explored to improve our understanding of the biological pathways activated upon radiation-induced toxicity. The toxicity of X-ray radiation on human bronchial epithelial cell lines (HBE) was determined through a dose-dependent increase in ROS production and γ-H2AX formation and changes to lncRNA expression was observed and quantified using lncRNA-specific microarrays. 115 lncRNAs expression was increased in a dose-dependent manner following X-ray irradiation. Bioinformatic prediction algorithms determined that these lncRNAs significantly affect the p53 signaling pathway, and, more specifically, the BRCA 1 transcription factor and coding genes adjacent to BRCA 1. Our results highlight a previously uncharacterized role for lncRNAs to act via the p53-pathway in response to X-ray-induced DNA damage, and suggest lncRNAs may serve as novel indicators for radiation toxicity.
We previously reported the promotion of bone regeneration in calvarial defects of both normal and ovariectomy-induced osteoporotic rats, with the use of biodegradable DNA/protamine scaffold. However, the method by which this DNA-containing scaffold promotes bone formation is still not understood. We hypothesize that the salmon DNA, from which this scaffold is derived, has an osteoinductive effect on pre-osteoblasts and osteoblasts. We examined the effects of salmon DNA on osteoblastic differentiation and calcification in MC3T3-E1 cells, mouse osteoblasts, in vitro and bone regeneration in a calvarial defect model of aged mouse in vivo. The salmon DNA fragments (300 bps) upregulated the expression of the osteogenic markers, such as alkaline phosphatase, Runx2, and osterix (Osx) in MC3T3E1 cells compared with incubation with osteogenic induction medium alone. Measurement of phosphate ion concentrations in cultures showed that the DNA scaffold degraded phosphate ions were released to the cell cultures. Interestingly, we found that the inclusion of DNA in osteoblastic cell cultures upregulated the expression of sodium-dependent phosphate (NaPi) cotransporters, SLC20A1 and SLC34A2, in MC3T3-E1 cells in a time dependent manner. Furthermore, the inclusion of DNA in cell cultures increased the transcellular permeability of phosphate. Conversely, the incubation of phosphonoformic acid, an inhibitor of NaPi cotransporters, attenuated the DNA-induced expression and activation of SLC20A1 and SLC34A2 in MC3T3-E1 cells, resulting in suppression of the osteogenic markers. The implantation of a salmon DNA scaffold disk promoted bone regeneration using calvarial defect models in 30-week-old mice. Our results indicate that the phosphate released from salmon DNA upregulated the expression and activation of NaPi cotransporters, resulting in the promotion of bone regeneration.
Autoimmune regulator (AIRE) activates the transcription of many genes in an unusual promiscuous and stochastic manner. The mechanism by which AIRE binds to the chromatin and DNA is not fully understood, and the regulatory elements that AIRE target genes possess are not delineated. In the current study, we demonstrate that AIRE activates the expression of transiently transfected luciferase reporters that lack defined promoter regions, as well as intron and poly(A) signal sequences. Our protein-DNA interaction experiments with mutated AIRE reveal that the intact homogeneously staining region/caspase recruitment domain (HSR/CARD) and amino acids R113 and K114 are key elements involved in AIRE binding to DNA.
Ribonuclease P (RNase P) catalyzes the processing of 5′ leader sequences of tRNA precursors in all three phylogenetic domains. RNase P also plays an essential role in non-tRNA biogenesis in bacterial and eukaryotic cells. For archaeal RNase Ps, additional functions, however, remain poorly understood. To gain insight into the biological function of archaeal RNase Ps in vivo, we prepared archaeal mutants KUWΔP3, KUWΔP8, and KUWΔP16, in which the gene segments encoding stem-loops containing helices, respectively, P3, P8 and P16 in RNase P RNA (TkopRNA) of the hyperthermophilic archaeon Thermococcus kodakarensis were deleted. Phenotypic analysis showed that KUWΔP3 and KUWΔP16 grew slowly compared with wild-type T. kodakarensis KUW1, while KUWΔP8 displayed no difference from T. kodakarensis KUW1. RNase P isolated using an affinity-tag from KUWΔP3 had reduced pre-tRNA cleavage activity compared with that from T. kodakarensis KUW1. Moreover, quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) and Northern blots analyses of KUWΔP3 showed greater accumulation of unprocessed transcripts for pre-tRNAs than that of T. kodakarensis KUW1. The current study represents the first attempt to prepare mutant T. kodakarensis with impaired RNase P for functional investigation. Comparative whole-transcriptome analysis of T. kodakarensis KUW1 and KUWΔP3 should allow for the comprehensive identification of RNA substrates for archaeal RNase Ps.
Glutathione-S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) and glutathione-S-transferase M3 (GSTM3) catalyze the glutathione-related clearance of xenobiotics. The methylation of these gene promoters was associated with oxidative stress that induced liver damage. This study aims to explore the relationship among GSTP1 and GSTM3 methylation, DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) expression, and oxidative stress in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). We retrospectively enrolled 153 patients with CHB and 40 healthy controls (HCs). The GSTP1 and GSTM3 methylation status, DNMTs mRNA levels in peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and TNF-α and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in plasma were detected. GSTP1 methylation was significantly higher in patients with CHB than HCs (P = 0.047). Patients with HBeAg-positive CHB showed significantly higher GSTP1 methylation than those with HBeAg-negative CHB (P = 0.017) and HCs (P = 0.007). No significant difference was observed between GSTP1 methylation in HBeAg-negative CHB and HCs (P = 0.191). DNMT1 and DNMT3a mRNA levels were significantly higher in participants with GSTP1 methylation than those without. In patients with CHB, the degree of GSTP1 promoter methylation was significantly correlated with DNMT1 mRNA, DNMT3a mRNA, TNF-α , MDA, HBeAg, ALT, AST and TBIL. In contrast, no significant difference was found between GSTM3 methylation in patients with CHB and HCs (P = 0.079). Meanwhile, no significant difference could be observed between GSTM3 promoter methylation in patients with HBeAg-positive CHB and HBeAg-negative CHB (P = 0.146). Therefore, this study demonstrated that GSTP1 hypermethylation was associated with DNMT1, DNMT3a overexpression and oxidative stress in patients with HBeAg-positive CHB.
The cell nucleus contains a number of membrane-less organelles or intra-nuclear compartments. These compartments are dynamic structures representing liquid-droplet phases which are only slightly denser than the bulk intra-nuclear fluid. They possess different functions, have diverse morphologies, and are typically composed of RNA (or, in some cases, DNA) and proteins. We analyzed 3005 mouse proteins localized in specific intra-nuclear organelles, such as nucleolus, chromatin, Cajal bodies, nuclear speckles, promyelocytic leukemia (PML) nuclear bodies, nuclear lamina, nuclear pores, and perinuclear compartment and compared them with ~29,863 non-nuclear proteins from mouse proteome. Our analysis revealed that intrinsic disorder is enriched in the majority of intra-nuclear compartments, except for the nuclear pore and lamina. These compartments are depleted in proteins that lack disordered domains and enriched in proteins that have multiple disordered domains. Moonlighting proteins found in multiple intra-nuclear compartments are more likely to have multiple disordered domains. Protein-protein interaction networks in the intra-nuclear compartments are denser and include more hubs compared to the non-nuclear proteins. Hubs in the intra-nuclear compartments (except for the nuclear pore) are enriched in disorder compared with non-nuclear hubs and non-nuclear proteins. Therefore, our work provides support to the idea of the functional importance of intrinsic disorder in the cell nucleus and shows that many proteins associated with sub-nuclear organelles in nuclei of mouse cells are enriched in disorder. This high level of disorder in the mouse nuclear proteins defines their ability to serve as very promiscuous binders, possessing both large quantities of potential disorder-based interaction sites and the ability of a single such site to be involved in a large number of interactions.
.The moisturizing and potentially protective properties of the organic osmolyte betaine (trimethylglycine) have made it an attractive component for skin care products. Its wide use despite the lack of comprehensive studies addressing its specific effects in skin led us to characterize the molecular targets of betaine in keratinocytes and to explore, whether it modifies the effects of acute UVB exposure.Genome-wide expression analysis was performed on organotypic cultures of rat epidermal keratinocytes, treated either with betaine (10 mM), UVB (30 mJ/cm2) or their combination. Results were verified with qRT-PCR, western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Additionally, cell proliferation and differentiation were analyzed. Among the 89 genes influenced by betaine, the differentiation marker keratin 2 showed the highest upregulation, which was also confirmed at protein level. Expression of Egr1, a transcription factor, and Purkinje cell protein 4, a regulator of Ca2+/calmodulin metabolism, also increased, while downregulated genes included several ion-channel components, such as Fxyd2.Bioinformatics analyses suggest that genes modulated by betaine are involved in DNA replication, might counteract UV-induced processes, and include many targets of transcription factors associated with cell proliferation and differentiation. Our results indicate that betaine controls unique gene expression pathways in keratinocytes, including some involved in differentiation.
Chemical reactivity of acyl glucuronides (AGs) is believed to be involved in the toxicity of carboxylic acid-containing drugs. Both direct and immune-mediated toxicity have been suggested as possible mechanisms of toxicity; however, it remains unclear. In the present study, we performed assays of half-lives, peptide adducts, and immunostimulation to evaluate the potential risk of AGs of 21 drugs and analyzed the relationship to the toxic category. AGs of all withdrawn drugs tested in this study showed short half-lives and peptide adducts formation, but so did those of several safe drugs. In contrast, only AGs of withdrawn and warning drugs induced interleukin-8 (IL-8) in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (hPBMCs). Using a DNA microarray assay, we found that zomepirac AG induced the mRNAs of 5 genes, including IL-8 in hPBMCs. In addition, withdrawn and warning drugs were distinguished from safe drugs by an integrated score of relative mRNA expression levels of 5 genes. The immunostimulation assay showed higher sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy compared with other methods. In preclinical drug development, the evaluation of the reactivity of AGs using half-lives and peptide adducts assays followed by the evaluation of immunostimulation by highly reactive AGs using hPBMCs can contribute to improved drug safety.
In eukaryotes, IRES sequences aid the recruitment of factors needed for translation to occur, enabling protein production independent of 5′ capped mRNA. Many patents and commercially available plasmids exploit their properties for polycistronic expression of recombinant proteins. However, these applications have been restricted to eukaryotic organisms, since it was thought that elements of this origin were essential for their activity. Here, using two tricistronic vectors designed for expression in mammalian hosts, we present evidence of EMCV IRES activity in prokaryotes. This finding enables the development of new and more versatile plasmid vectors for the production of recombinant proteins in multiple hosts from a single construct. Additionally, it provides new hints for the elaboration of alternative models describing the molecular mechanism of EMCV IRES mediated translation, in the absence of eukaryotic elements that were considered indispensable for its function.
All rights reserve.The Ku70-Ku80 heterodimer plays a critical role in the maintenance of genomic stability in humans and yeasts. In this report, we identified and characterized OsKu80 in rice, a model monocot crop. OsKu80 forms a heterodimer with OsKu70 in yeast and plant cells, as demonstrated by yeast two-hybrid, in vivo co-immunoprecipitation, and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays. RNAi-mediated knock-down T3 transgenic rice plants (Ubi:RNAi-OsKu80) displayed a retarded growth phenotype at the post-germination stage. In addition, the Ubi:RNAi-OsKu80 knock-down progeny exhibited noticeably increased telomere length as compared to wild-type rice. These results are discussed with the idea that OsKu80 plays a role in developmental growth and telomere length regulation in rice plants.
Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) are detected ubiquitously and are linked to range of adverse health effects. The Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin inhabited the Pearl River Estuary (PRE), China, where high concentrations of POPs have been reported. This study evaluated the threats posed by POPs in the environment to the dolphin using an in vitro system. We selected BNF(β-naphthoflavone) and four POPs (DDTs (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethanes), CHLs(chlorides), HCHs(hexachlorocyclohexanes) and HCB(hexachlorobenzene)) which had been accumulated in the dolphin with high concentrations to treat the cultured skin fibroblast cells (ScSF cells) of the dolphin, and investigated the expression patterns of the ecological stress biomarkers CYP1A1, AHR and HSP70 in the cell line. The results showed that CYP1A1 was up-regulated after being exposed to different concentrations of BNF, DDTs and HCHs. CHLs, HCHs and HCB promoted AHR expression. HSP70 expression was increased by high concentrations of BNF and DDTs. Moreover, comet assay experiments revealed that DDTs produced higher degree of DNA damage to ScSF cells than other POPs, implying that the Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin in the PRE has been threatened by POPs accumulated in the body, especially by DDTs. Our results provided important information to assess the risk of the Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin raised by environmental POPs in vivo.
MicroRNA (miRNA) deregulation is associated with various cancers. Among an expanding list of cancer-related miRNAs, deregulation of miR-125b has been well documented in many cancers including breast. Based on current knowledge, miR-125b is considered to be a tumor suppressor in breast cancers. While important messenger RNA (mRNA) targets have been defined for miR-125b, here, we aimed to further investigate direct/indirect consequences of miR-125b expression in breast cancer cells by using a transcriptome approach. Upon miR-125b expression, a total of 138 cancer-related genes were found to be differentially expressed in breast cancer cells. While only a few of these were predicted to be direct mRNA targets, majority of the gene expression changes were potentially downstream and indirect effects of miR-125b expression. Among these, activated leukocyte antigen molecule (ALCAM) mRNA and protein levels were found to be highly significantly increased upon miR-125b expression. Given the tumor suppressor role of miR-125b in our model system, upon silencing of ALCAM expression, cell proliferation rate re-increased in miR-125b-expressing cells. While ALCAM’s possible context-dependent roles are not clear in breast cancer, a diverse expression pattern of ALCAM mRNA was detected in a panel of breast cancer patient samples. Differentially expressed/regulated cancer-related genes upon miR-125b expression along with the significant increase of ALCAM are of future interest to understand how deregulated expression of miR-125b may have a tumor suppressor role in breast and other cancers.
Human paraoxonase 1 (PON1) is A-esterase synthesized in the liver and secreted into the plasma, where it associates with HDL. PON1 acts as an antioxidant preventing lipid oxidation and detoxifies a wide range of substrates, including organophosphate compounds. The variability of PON1 (enzyme activity/serum levels) has been attributed to internal and external factors. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the transcriptional regulation of PON1 have not been well-studied. The aim of this study was to evaluate and characterize the transcriptional activation of PON1 by nuclear receptors (NR) in human hepatoma cells. In silico analysis was performed on the promoter region of PON1 to determine the response elements of NR. Real-time PCR was used to evaluate the effect of specific NR ligands on the mRNA levels of genes regulated by NR and PON1. The results indicated that NR response elements had 95% homology to pregnenolone (PXR), glucocorticoids (GR), retinoic acid (RXR) and peroxisomes proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα). Treatments with Dexamethasone (GR ligand), Rifampicin (PXR ligand) and TCDD (AhR ligand) increased the mRNA levels of PON1 at 24 and 48 h. We showed that the activation of GR by Dexamethasone results in PON1 gene induction accompanied by an increase in activity levels. In conclusion, these results demonstrate that GR regulates PON1 gene transcription through directly binding to NR response elements at -95 to -628 bp of the PON1 promoter. This study suggests new molecular mechanisms for the transcriptional regulation of PON1 through a process involving the activation of PXR.
Background: Quantitative description of dose-response of a drug for complex systems is essential for treatment of diseases and drug discovery. Given the growth of large-scale biological data obtained by multi-level assays, computational modeling has become an important approach to understand the mechanism of drug action. However, due to complicated interactions between drugs and cellular targets, the prediction of drug efficacy is a challenge, especially for complex systems. And the biological systems can be regarded as networks, where nodes represent molecular entities (DNA, RNA, protein and small compound) and processes, edges represent the relationships between nodes. Thus we combine biological pathway-based network modeling and molecular docking to evaluate drug efficacy. Results: Network efficiency (NE) and network flux (NF) are both global measures of the network connectivity. In this work, we used NE and NF to quantitatively evaluate the inhibitory effects of compounds against the lipopolysaccharide-induced production of prostaglandin E2. The edge values of the pathway network of this biological process were reset according to the Michaelis-Menten equation, which used the binding constant and drug concentration to determine the degree of inhibition of the target protein in the pathway. The combination of NE and NF was adopted to evaluate the inhibitory effects. The dose-response curve was sigmoid and the EC50 values of 5 compounds were in good agreement with experimental results (R2∈=∈0.93). Moreover, we found that 2 drugs produced maximal synergism when they were combined according to the ratio between each EC50. Conclusions: This quantitative model has the ability to predict the dose-response relationships of single drug and drug combination in the context of the pathway network of biological process. These findings are valuable for the evaluation of drug efficacy and thus provide an effective approach for pathway network-based drug discovery.
Increasing frequencies of 3-acetyl-deoxynivalenol (3-ADON)-producing strains of Fusarium graminearum (3-ADON chemotype) have been reported in North America and Asia. 3-ADON is nearly nontoxic at the level of the ribosomal target and has to be deacetylated to cause inhibition of protein biosynthesis. Plant cells can efficiently remove the acetyl groups of 3-ADON, but the underlying genes are yet unknown. We therefore performed a study of the family of candidate carboxylesterases (CXE) genes of the monocot model plant Brachypodium distachyon. We report the identification and characterization of the first plant enzymes responsible for deacetylation of trichothecene toxins. The product of the BdCXE29 gene efficiently deacetylates T-2 toxin to HT-2 toxin, NX-2 to NX-3, both 3-ADON and 15-acetyl-deoxynivalenol (15-ADON) into deoxynivalenol and, to a lesser degree, also fusarenon X into nivalenol. The BdCXE52 esterase showed lower activity than BdCXE29 when expressed in yeast and accepts 3-ADON, NX-2, 15-ADON and, to a limited extent, fusarenon X as substrates. Expression of these Brachypodium genes in yeast increases the toxicity of 3-ADON, suggesting that highly similar genes existing in crop plants may act as susceptibility factors in Fusarium head blight disease.
Marine neurotoxins accumulate in seafood and therewith represent a threat for consumers. At the European level, the use of in vivo bioassays is banned from 2015 onwards, except for the control of production areas. Cytotoxicity in the neuro-2a assay has been shown a promising in vitro alternative. However, given that cytotoxicity may be sensitive to confounding factors the current study investigates the suitability of functional endpoints as alternatives to cytotoxicity for the detection of marine neurotoxins. Microarray analyses were performed following exposure of neuro-2a cells to three marine neurotoxins (palytoxin (PlTx), saxitoxin (STX) and tetrodotoxin (TTX)) to identify genes up- or down-regulated that can be used as biomarkers for screening purposes. In addition to microarrays, the voltage dependent fluorescent probe bisoxonol was used to assess changes in cellular membrane potential. Biomarkers based on mRNA expression were detected for PlTx but not for STX and TTX. STX and TTX decreased the fluorescence of bisoxonol while PlTx showed no effect. When using cytotoxicity as the read out the neuro-2a assay detects these three neurotoxins at similar concentrations. Therefore it is concluded that the newly investigated endpoints in the neuro-2a assay are not preferred over cytotoxicity in a suitable broad and sensitive bioassay for the detection of marine neurotoxins in real practice.
There is a growing impetus to develop more accurate, predictive and relevant in vitro models of renal xenobiotic exposure. As part of the EU-FP7, Predict-IV project, a major aim was to develop models that recapitulate not only normal tissue physiology but also aspects of disease conditions that exist as predisposing risk factors for xenobiotic toxicity. Hypoxia, as a common micro-environmental alteration associated with pathophysiology in renal disease, was investigated for its effect on the toxicity profile of a panel of 14 nephrotoxins, using the human proximal tubular epithelial RPTECT/TERT1 cell line. Changes in ATP, glutathione and resazurin reduction, after 14 days of daily repeat exposure, revealed a number of compounds, including adefovir dipivoxil with enhanced toxicity in hypoxia. We observed intracellular accumulation of adefovir in hypoxia and suggest decreases in the efflux transport proteins MRP4, MRP5, NHERF1 and NHERF3 as a possible explanation. MRP5 and NHERF3 were also down-regulated upon treatment with the HIF-1 activator, dimethyloxalylglycine. Interestingly, adefovir dependent gene expression shifted from alterations in cell cycle gene expression to an inflammatory response in hypoxia. The ability to investigate aspects of disease states and their influence on renal toxin handling is a key advantage of in vitro systems developed here. They also allow for detailed investigations into mechanisms of compound toxicity of potential importance for compromised tissue exposure.
Glycyrrhetinic acid (GA) has been used clinically in the treatment of patients with chronic hepatitis. This study evaluated the effect of GA on the activity of five P450(CYP450) cytochrome enzymes: CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4, in human liver microsomes (HLMs) and recombinant cDNA-expressed enzyme systems using a HPLC-MS/MS CYP-specific probe substrate assay. With midazolam as the probe substrate, GA greatly decreased CYP3A4 activity with IC50 values of 8.195 μM in HLMs and 7.498 μM in the recombinant cDNA-expressed CYP3A4 enzyme system, respectively. It significantly decreased CYP3A4 activity in a dose- but not time-dependent manner. Results from Lineweaver–Burk plots showed that GA could inhibit CYP3A4 activity competitively, with a Ki value of 1.57 μM in HLMs. Moreover, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 could also be inhibited significantly by GA with IC50 of 42.89 and 40.26 μM in HLMs, respectively. Other CYP450 isoforms were not markedly affected by GA. The inhibition was also confirmed by an in vivo study of mice. In addition, it was observed that mRNA expressions of the Cyps2c and 3a family decreased significantly in the livers of mice treated with GA. In conclusion, this study indicates that GA may exert herb-drug interactions by competitively inhibiting CYP3A4.
An ultra fast and unbiased method that uses salicylic acid coated magnetic nanoparticles (SAMNPs) and magnetophoretic chromatography is developed to extract chromatin associated RNAs (CARs). The SAMNPs were first used for enriching cells from the cell culture media and further used for capturing chromatin after cells were lysed. The formed SAMNPs-chromatin complexes were transferred to a viscous polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution stored in a 200-μl pipette tip. Due to the difference in viscosities, a bi-layer liquid was formed inside the pipette tip. The SAMNPs-chromatin complexes were separated from the free SAMNPs and free RNA-SAMNPs complexes by applying an external magnetic field. The CARs were further extracted from the SAMNP-chromatin complexes directly. The extracted CARs were reverse transcribed as cDNA and further characterized by real-time qPCR. The total assay time taken for cell separation, chromatin purification and chromatin associated RNAs extraction can be accomplished in less than 2 h.
Endoglin overexpression is associated with highly proliferative tumor endothelium and also with some tumors, including melanoma. Its targeting has anti-tumor effectiveness, which can also be obtained by RNA interference. The aim of our study was to explore the anti-tumor effectiveness of endoglin silencing by electrotransfer of plasmid DNA encoding short hairpin RNA against endoglin in two murine B16 melanoma variants with different metastatic potential on cells, spheroids and subcutaneous tumors in mice. The results demonstrate that endoglin silencing with gene electrotransfer reduces the proliferation, survival and migration of melanoma cells and also has anti-tumor effectiveness, as the therapy resulted in a high percentage of tumor cures (23% and 58% on B16F1 and B16F10 tumors, respectively). The effectiveness of the therapy correlated with endoglin expression in melanoma cells; in vitro the effects were more pronounced in B16F1 cells, which express more endoglin than B16F10. However, the opposite was observed in vivo in tumors, where there was a higher expression of endoglin and better anti-tumor effectiveness in the B16F10 tumor. In conclusion, targeting endoglin for the treatment of melanoma seems to be a concept worthy of further exploration due to the increased therapeutic effect of the therapy based on simultaneous vascular targeting and its direct effect on tumor cells.
Background: DNA methylation profiles are responsive to environmental stimuli and metabolic shifts. This makes DNA methylation a potential biomarker of environmental-related and lifestyle-driven diseases of adulthood. Therefore, we investigated if white blood cells’ (WBCs) DNA methylation profiles are associated with myocardial infarction (MI) occurrence. Whole-genome DNA methylation was investigated by microarray analysis in 292 MI cases and 292 matched controls from the large prospective Italian European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) cohort (EPICOR study). Significant signals (false discovery rate (FDR) adjusted P < 0.05) were replicated by mass spectrometry in 317 MI cases and 262 controls from the Dutch EPIC cohort (EPIC-NL). Long interspersed nuclear element-1 (LINE-1) methylation profiles were also evaluated in both groups. Results: A differentially methylated region (DMR) within the zinc finger and BTB domain-containing protein 12 (ZBTB12) gene body and LINE-1 hypomethylation were identified in EPICOR MI cases and replicated in the EPIC-NL sample (ZBTB12-DMR meta-analysis: effect size ± se = −0.016 ± 0.003, 95 % CI = −0.021;−0.011, P = 7.54 × 10−10; LINE-1 methylation meta-analysis: effect size ± se = −0.161 ± 0.040, 95 % CI = −0.239;−0.082, P = 6.01 × 10−5). Moreover, cases with shorter time to disease had more pronounced ZBTB12-DMR hypomethylation (meta-analysis, men: effect size ± se = −0.0059 ± 0.0017, PTREND = 5.0 × 10−4; women: effect size ± se = −0.0053 ± 0.0019, PTREND = 6.5 × 10−3) and LINE-1 hypomethylation (meta-analysis, men: effect size ± se = −0.0010 ± 0.0003, PTREND = 1.6 × 10−3; women: effect size ± se = −0.0008 ± 0.0004, PTREND = 0.026) than MI cases with longer time to disease. In the EPIC-NL replication panel, DNA methylation profiles improved case-control discrimination and reclassification when compared with traditional MI risk factors only (net reclassification improvement (95 % CI) between 0.23 (0.02-0.43), P = 0.034, and 0.89 (0.64-1.14), P < 1 × 10−5). Conclusions: Our data suggest that specific methylation profiles can be detected in WBCs, in a preclinical condition, several years before the occurrence of MI, providing an independent signature of cardiovascular risk. We showed that prediction accuracy can be improved when DNA methylation is taken into account together with traditional MI risk factors, although further confirmation on a larger sample is warranted. Our findings support the potential use of DNA methylation patterns in peripheral blood white cells as promising early biomarkers of MI.
This work is written by US Government employees and is in the public domain in the US. Formation of the mature HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT) p66/p51 heterodimer requires subunit-specific processing of the p66/p66' homodimer precursor. Since the ribonuclease H (RH) domain contains an occult cleavage site located near its center, cleavage must occur either prior to folding or subsequent to unfolding. Recent NMR studies have identified a slow, subunit-specific RH domain unfolding process proposed to result from a residue tug-of-war between the polymerase and RH domains on the functionally inactive, p66' subunit. Here, we describe a structural comparison of the isolated RH domain with a domain swapped RH dimer that reveals several intrinsically destabilizing characteristics of the isolated domain that facilitate excursions of Tyr427 from its binding pocket and separation of helices B and D. These studies provide independent support for the subunit-selective RH domain unfolding pathway in which instability of the Tyr427 binding pocket facilitates its release followed by domain transfer, acting as a trigger for further RH domain destabilization and subsequent unfolding. As further support for this pathway, NMR studies demonstrate that addition of an RH active site-directed isoquinolone ligand retards the subunit-selective RH' domain unfolding behavior of the p66/p66' homodimer. This study demonstrates the feasibility of directly targeting RT maturation with therapeutics.
Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP) has long been implicated as a triggering agent in Crohn’s disease (CD). In this study, we investigated the growth/persistence of both M. avium subsp. hominissuis (MAH) and MAP, in macrophages from healthy controls (HC), CD and ulcerative colitis patients. For viability assessment, both CFU counts and a pre16SrRNA RNA/DNA ratio assay (for MAP) were used. Phagolysosome fusion was evaluated by immunofluorescence, through analysis of LAMP-1 colocalization with MAP. IBD macrophages were more permissive to MAP survival than HC macrophages (a finding not evident with MAH), but did not support MAP active growth. The lower MAP CFU counts in macrophage cultures associated with Infliximab treatment were not due to increased killing, but possibly to elevation in the proportion of intracellular dormant non-culturable MAP forms, as MAP showed higher viability in those macrophages. Increased MAP viability was not related to lack of phagolysosome maturation. The predominant induction of MAP dormant forms by Infliximab treatment may explain the lack of MAP reactivation during anti-TNF therapy of CD but does not exclude the possibility of MAP recrudescence after termination of therapy.
Ethnopharmacological relevance Rosmarinic acid (RA), a major hydrosoluble bioactive compound found in the Chinese medicinal herb, Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge, which has been used in traditional Chinese medicine to treat various diseases, including cancer. However, the mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. Aim of the study Guided by microarray hybridization and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, we identified modes of action of rosmarinic acid (RA) isolated from S. miltiorrhiza on acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. Materials and methods Microarray data were verified by independent methods: Real-time RT-PCR (mRNA expression), resazurin assay (cytotoxicity of RA towards parental CCRF-CEM, multidrug-resistant CEM/ADR5000 cells and normal lymphocytes), flow cytometry (cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, necroptosis, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP)), single cell gel electrophoresis (DNA damage), molecular docking and gene promoter binding motif analysis (NFκB), Western blotting (nuclear NFκB translocation, PARP cleavage, caspase 3/7/9 expression), and fibronectin-based cell adhesion assay. Results RA dose-dependently inhibited CCRF-CEM and CEM/ADR5000 cells, but caused less cytotoxicity towards normal lymphocytes. RA simultaneously induced apoptosis and necrosis, as shown by cell morphology and annexin V-PI assay. DNA damage was dose-dependently induced without ROS generation, which subsequently led to cell cycle arrest. RA-stimulated MMP dysfunction activated PARP-cleavage and caspase-independent apoptosis. In accordance with molecular docking and gene promoter binding motif analyses, p65 translocation from the cytosol to the nucleus was blocked by RA, indicating a mechanistic role of the NFκB pathway to explain RA's action. RA affected cellular movement as evaluated by ameliorating cell adhesion to fibronectin. Conclusions RA induced apoptosis and necrosis in a ROS-independent DNA damage and caspase-independent manner. These results may contribute to the rationale use of S. miltiorrhiza and RA in traditional medicine of leukemia.
Tandem repeat proteins, which are formed by repetition of modular units of protein sequence and structure, play important biological roles as macromolecular binding and scaffolding domains, enzymes, and building blocks for the assembly of fibrous materials. The modular nature of repeat proteins enables the rapid construction and diversification of extended binding surfaces by duplication and recombination of simple building blocks. The overall architecture of tandem repeat protein structures - which is dictated by the internal geometry and local packing of the repeat building blocks - is highly diverse, ranging from extended, super-helical folds that bind peptide, DNA, and RNA partners, to closed and compact conformations with internal cavities suitable for small molecule binding and catalysis. Here we report the development and validation of computational methods for de novo design of tandem repeat protein architectures driven purely by geometric criteria defining the inter-repeat geometry, without reference to the sequences and structures of existing repeat protein families. We have applied these methods to design a series of closed α-solenoid repeat structures (α-toroids) in which the inter-repeat packing geometry is constrained so as to juxtapose the amino (N) and carboxy (C) termini; several of these designed structures have been validated by X-ray crystallography. Unlike previous approaches to tandem repeat protein engineering, our design procedure does not rely on template sequence or structural information taken from natural repeat proteins and hence can produce structures unlike those seen in nature. As an example, we have successfully designed and validated closed α-solenoid repeats with a left-handed helical architecture that - to our knowledge - is not yet present in the protein structure database.
Fc receptor for IgG IIA (FcγRIIA)-mediated platelet activation is essential in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and other immune-mediated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis disorders. There is considerable interindividual variation in platelet FcγRIIA activation, the reasons for which remain unclear. We hypothesized that genetic variations between FcγRIIA hyper- and hyporesponders regulate FcγRIIA-mediated platelet reactivity and influence HIT susceptibility. Using unbiased genome-wide expression profiling, we observed that human hyporesponders to FcγRIIA activation showed higher platelet T-cell ubiquitin ligand-2 (TULA- 2) mRNA expression than hyperresponders. Silent interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of TULA-2 resulted in hyperphosphorylation of spleen tyrosine kinase following FcγRIIA activation in HEL cells. Significantly, we found miR-148a-3p targeted and inhibited both human and mouse TULA-2 mRNA. Inhibition of miR-148a in FcγRIIA transgenic mice upregulated the TULA-2 level and reduced FcγRIIA- and glycoprotein VI-mediated platelet αIIbβ3 activation and calcium mobilization. Anti-miR-148a also reduced thrombus formation following intravascular platelet activation via FcγRIIA. These results show that TULA-2 is a target of miR-148a-3p, and TULA-2 serves as a negative regulator of FcγRIIA-mediated platelet activation. This is also the first study toshowthe effects of in vivo miRNA inhibition on platelet reactivity. Our work suggests that modulating miR-148a expression is a potential therapeutic approach for thrombosis.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Pseudoknots are a fundamental RNA tertiary structure with important roles in regulation of mRNA translation. Molecular force spectroscopic approaches such as optical tweezers can track the pseudoknot's unfolding intermediate states by pulling the RNA chain from both ends, but the kinetic unfolding pathway induced by this method may be different from that in vivo, which occurs during translation and proceeds from the 5′ to 3′ end. Here we developed a ribosome-mimicking, nanopore pulling assay for dissecting the vectorial unfolding mechanism of pseudoknots. The pseudoknot unfolding pathway in the nanopore, either from the 5′ to 3′ end or in the reverse direction, can be controlled by a DNA leader that is attached to the pseudoknot at the 5′ or 3′ ends. The different nanopore conductance between DNA and RNA translocation serves as a marker for the position and structure of the unfolding RNA in the pore. With this design, we provided evidence that the pseudoknot unfolding is a two-step, multistate, metal ion-regulated process depending on the pulling direction. Most notably, unfolding in both directions is rate-limited by the unzipping of the first helix domain (first step), which is Helix-1 in the 5′ → 3′ direction and Helix-2 in the 3′ → 5′ direction, suggesting that the initial unfolding step in either pulling direction needs to overcome an energy barrier contributed by the noncanonical triplex base-pairs and coaxial stacking interactions for the tertiary structure stabilization. These findings provide new insights into RNA vectorial unfolding mechanisms, which play an important role in biological functions including frameshifting.
Site-directed RNA editing allows for the manipulation of RNA and protein function by reprogramming genetic information at the RNA level. For this we assemble artificial RNA-guided editases and demonstrate their transcript repair activity in cells and in developing embryos of the annelid Platynereis dumerilii. A hallmark of our assembly strategy is the covalent attachment of guideRNA and editing enzyme by applying the SNAP-tag technology, a process that we demonstrate here to be readily triggered by light in vitro, in mammalian cell culture, and also in P. dumerilii. Lacking both sophisticated chemistry and extensive genetic engineering, this technology provides a convenient route for the light-dependent switching of protein isoforms. The presented strategy may also serve as a blue-print for the engineering of addressable machineries that apply tailored nucleic acid analogues to manipulate RNA or DNA site-specifically in living organisms.
The complete mitochondrial genome of the Southern catfish (Silurus meridionalis) and the Chinese catfish (S. asotus), was determined using the long and accurate polymerase chain reaction (LA-PCR) method. The mitochondrial DNA nucleotide sequences of S. meridionalis and S. asotus were compared with those of 47 other catfish species in the same order. The total length of mitochondrial DNA for S. meridionalis and S. asotus was 16,526 and 16,525 bp, respectively, and included 13 protein-coding genes, 2 ribosomal RNA genes, 22 transfer RNA genes, and a non-coding control region. This mitochondrial gene arrangement is identical to that observed in other Siluriformes. To determine the relative phylogenetic positions of S. meridionalis and S. asotus, and to discover phylogenetic relationships among 24 families of Siluriformes, analyses were conducted, based on mitochondrial DNA, 12S ribosomal RNA, 16S ribosomal RNA, and 13 protein-coding gene sequence data sets. Phylogenetic analyses were congruent with a basal split of the order into Clupeiformes, Characiformes, Cypriniformes, and Siluriformes, and supported a closer relationship of the Southern catfish (family Siluridae) and the Chinese catfish (family Siluridae) to Pimelodidae than to Bagridae. We concluded that these two species are part of a molecular clade that is different from that proposed in recent studies, in which Amblycipitidae appears as a sister group. Our results showed Amblycipitidae appearing as the most basal extant, and Bagridae appearing as a sister group of Cranoglanididae and Pangasiidae. The Siluriformes showed close phylogenetic relationship to the Characiformes.
Recently, an increasing number of studies on natural antisense transcripts have been reported, especially regarding their classification, temporal and spatial expression patterns, regulatory functions and mechanisms. It is well established that natural antisense transcripts are produced from the strand opposite to the strand encoding a protein. Despite the pivotal roles of natural antisense transcripts in regulating the expression of target genes, the transcriptional mechanisms initiated by antisense promoters (ASPs) remain unknown. To date, nearly all of the studies conducted on this topic have focused on the ASP of a single gene of interest, whereas no study has systematically analyzed the locations of ASPs in the genome, ASP activity, or factors influencing this activity. This review focuses on elaborating on and summarizing the characteristics of ASPs to extend our knowledge about the mechanisms of antisense transcript initiation.
How could modern life have evolved? The answer to that question still remains unclear. However, evidence is growing that, since the origin of life, RNA could have played an important role throughout evolution, right up to the development of complex organisms and even highly sophisticated features such as human cognition. RNA mediated RNA-aminoacylation can be seen as a first landmark on the path from the RNA world to modern DNA- and protein-based life. Likewise, the generation of the RNA modifications that can be found in various RNA species today may already have started in the RNA world, where such modifications most likely entailed functional advantages. This association of modification patterns with functional features was apparently maintained throughout the further course of evolution, and particularly tRNAs can now be seen as paradigms for the developing interdependence between structure, modification and function. It is in this spirit that this review highlights important stepping stones of the development of (t)RNAs and their modifications (including aminoacylation) from the ancient RNA world up until their present role in the development and maintenance of human cognition. The latter can be seen as a high point of evolution at its present stage, and the susceptibility of cognitive features to even small alterations in the proper structure and functioning of tRNAs underscores the evolutionary relevance of this RNA species.
In food, the biogenic amine (BA) histamine is mainly produced by histidine decarboxylation catalysed by microbial histidine decarboxylase. The consumption of foods containing high concentrations of histamine can trigger adverse neurological, gastrointestinal and respiratory reactions. Indeed, histamine is one of the most toxic of all BAs, and is often detected in high concentration in cheese. However, little is known about the microorganisms responsible for its accumulation in this food. In the present work, 25 histamine-producing Lactobacillus vaginalis strains were isolated from a blue-veined cheese (the first time that histamine-producing strains of this species have been isolated from any food). The restriction profiles of their genomes were analysed by PFGE, and seven lineages identified. The presence of the histidine decarboxylase gene (hdcA) was confirmed by PCR. The nucleotide sequence and genetic organisation of the histamine biosynthesis gene cluster (HDC) and its flanking regions are described for a representative strain (L. vaginalis IPLA11050).
Background: The nuclear protein Src-associated protein of 68 kDa in mitosis (Sam68) is known to bind RNA and be involved in cellular processes triggered in response to environmental stresses, including virus infection. Interestingly, Sam68 is a multi-functional protein implicated in the life cycle of retroviruses and picornaviruses and is also considered a marker of virus-induced stress granules (SGs). Recently, we demonstrated the partial redistribution of Sam68 to the cytoplasm in FMDV infected cells, its interaction with viral protease 3Cpro, and found a significant reduction in viral titers as consequence of Sam68-specific siRNA knockdowns. Despite of that, details of how it benefits FMDV remains to be elucidated. Methods: Sam68 cytoplasmic localization was examined by immunofluorescent microscopy, counterstaining with antibodies against Sam68, a viral capsid protein and markers of SGs. The relevance of RAAA motifs in the IRES was investigated using electromobility shift assays with Sam68 protein and parental and mutant FMDV RNAs. In addition, full genome WT and mutant or G-luc replicon RNAs were tested following transfection in mammalian cells. The impact of Sam68 depletion to virus protein and RNA synthesis was investigated in a cell-free system. Lastly, through co-immunoprecipitation, structural modeling, and subcellular fractionation, viral protein interactions with Sam68 were explored. Results: FMDV-induced cytoplasmic redistribution of Sam68 resulted in it temporarily co-localizing with SG marker: TIA-1. Mutations that disrupted FMDV IRES RAAA motifs, with putative affinity to Sam68 in domain 3 and 4 cause a reduction on the formation of ribonucleoprotein complexes with this protein and resulted in non-viable progeny viruses and replication-impaired replicons. Furthermore, depletion of Sam68 in cell-free extracts greatly diminished FMDV RNA replication, which was restored by addition of recombinant Sam68. The results here demonstrated that Sam68 specifically co-precipitates with both FMDV 3Dpol and 3Cpro consistent with early observations of FMDV 3Cpro-induced cleavage of Sam68. Conclusion: We have found that Sam68 is a specific binding partner for FMDV non-structural proteins 3Cpro and 3Dpol and showed that mutations at RAAA motifs in IRES domains 3 and 4 cause a decrease in Sam68 affinity to these RNA elements and rendered the mutant RNA non-viable. Interestingly, in FMDV infected cells re-localized Sam68 was transiently detected along with SG markers in the cytoplasm. These results support the importance of Sam68 as a host factor co-opted by FMDV during infection and demonstrate that Sam68 interact with both, FMDV RNA motifs in the IRES and viral non-structural proteins 3Cpro and 3Dpol.
Background: Highly sensitive, scalable diagnostic methods are needed to guide malaria elimination interventions. While traditional microscopy and rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) are suitable for the diagnosis of symptomatic malaria infection, more sensitive tests are needed to screen for low-density, asymptomatic infections that are targeted by interventions aiming to eliminate the entire reservoir of malaria infection in humans. Methods: A reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT- PCR) was developed for multiplexed detection of the 18S ribosomal RNA gene and ribosomal RNA of Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax. Simulated field samples stored for 14 days with sample preservation buffer were used to assess the analytical sensitivity and specificity. Additionally, 1750 field samples from Southeastern Myanmar were tested both by RDT and ultrasensitive RT-PCR. Results: Limits of detection (LoD) were determined under simulated field conditions. When 0.3 mL blood samples were stored for 14 days at 28°C and 80 % humidity, the LoD was less than 16 parasites/mL for P. falciparum and 19.7 copies/μL for P. vivax (using a plasmid surrogate), about 10,000-fold lower than RDTs. Of the 1739 samples successfully evaluated by both ultrasensitive RT-PCR and RDT, only two were RDT positive while 24 were positive for P. falciparum, 108 were positive for P. vivax, and 127 were positive for either P. vivax and/or P. falciparum using ultrasensitive RT-PCR. Conclusions: This ultrasensitive RT-PCR method is a robust, field-tested screening method that is vastly more sensitive than RDTs. Further optimization may result in a truly scalable tool suitable for widespread surveillance of low-level asymptomatic P. falciparum and P. vivax parasitaemia.
Microbial successions on the surface and in the interior of surface ripened semi-hard Danish Danbo cheeses were investigated by culture-dependent and -independent techniques. Culture-independent detection of microorganisms was obtained by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and pyrosequencing, using amplicons of 16S and 26S rRNA genes for prokaryotes and eukaryotes, respectively. With minor exceptions, the results from the culture-independent analyses correlated to the culture-dependent plating results. Even though the predominant microorganisms detected with the two culture-independent techniques correlated, a higher number of genera were detected by pyrosequencing compared to DGGE. Additionally, minor parts of the microbiota, i.e. comprising < 10.0% of the operational taxonomic units (OTUs), were detected by pyrosequencing, resulting in more detailed information on the microbial succession. As expected, microbial profiles of the surface and the interior of the cheeses diverged. During cheese production pyrosequencing determined Lactococcus as the dominating genus on cheese surfaces, representing on average 94.7% ± 2.1% of the OTUs. At day 6 Lactococcus spp. declined to 10.0% of the OTUs, whereas Staphylococcus spp. went from 0.0% during cheese production to 75.5% of the OTUs at smearing. During ripening, i.e. from 4 to 18 weeks, Corynebacterium was the dominant genus on the cheese surface (55.1% ± 9.8% of the OTUs), with Staphylococcus (17.9% ± 11.2% of the OTUs) and Brevibacterium (10.4% ± 8.3% of the OTUs) being the second and third most abundant genera. Other detected bacterial genera included Clostridiisalibacter (5.0% ± 4.0% of the OTUs), as well as Pseudoclavibacter, Alkalibacterium and Marinilactibacillus, which represented < 2% of the OTUs. At smearing, yeast counts were low with Debaryomyces being the dominant genus accounting for 46.5% of the OTUs. During ripening the yeast counts increased significantly with Debaryomyces being the predominant genus, on average accounting for 96.7% ± 4.1% of the OTUs. The interior of the cheeses was dominated by Lactococcus spp. comprising on average 93.9% ± 7.8% of the OTUs throughout the cheese processing. The microbial dynamics described at genus level in this study add to a comprehensive understanding of the complex microbiota existing especially on surface ripened semi-hard cheeses.
Background: Bat trypanosomes are implicated in the evolution of the T. cruzi clade, which harbours most African, European and American trypanosomes from bats and other trypanosomes from African, Australian and American terrestrial mammals, including T. cruzi and T. rangeli, the agents of the American human trypanosomiasis. The diversity of bat trypanosomes globally is still poorly understood, and the common ancestor, geographical origin, and evolution of species within the T. cruzi clade remain largely unresolved. Methods: Trypanosome sequences were obtained from cultured parasites and from museum archived liver/blood samples of bats captured from Guatemala (Central America) to the Brazilian Atlantic Coast. Phylogenies were inferred using Small Subunit (SSU) rRNA, glycosomal glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase (gGAPDH), and Spliced Leader (SL) RNA genes. Results: Here, we described Trypanosoma wauwau n. sp. from Pteronotus bats (Mormoopidae) placed in the T. cruzi clade, then supporting the bat-seeding hypothesis whereby the common ancestor of this clade likely was a bat trypanosome. T. wauwau was sister to the clade T. spp-Neobats from phyllostomid bats forming an assemblage of trypanosome species exclusively of Noctilionoidea Neotropical bats, which was sister to an Australian clade of trypanosomes from indigenous marsupials and rodents, which possibly evolved from a bat trypanosome. T. wauwau was found in 26.5 % of the Pteronotus bats examined, and phylogeographical analysis evidenced the wide geographical range of this species. To date, this species was not detected in other bats, including those that were sympatric or shared shelters with Pteronotus. T. wauwau did not develop within mammalian cells, and was not infective to Balb/c mice or to triatomine vectors of T. cruzi and T. rangeli. Conclusions: Trypanosoma wauwau n. sp. was linked to Pteronotus bats. The positioning of the clade T. wauwau/T.spp-Neobats as the most basal Neotropical bat trypanosomes and closely related to an Australian lineage of trypanosomes provides additional evidence that the T. cruzi clade trypanosomes likely evolved from bats, and were dispersed in bats within and between continents from ancient to unexpectedly recent times.
The vertebrate gut microbiota have been implicated in the metabolism of xenobiotic compounds, motivating studies of microbe-driven metabolism of clinically important drugs. Here, we studied interactions between the microbiota and indomethacin, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that inhibits cyclooxygenases (COX) -1 and -2. Indomethacin was tested in both acute and chronic exposure models in mice at clinically relevant doses, which suppressed production of COX-1- and COX-2-derived prostaglandins and caused small intestinal (SI) damage. Deep sequencing analysis showed that indomethacin exposure was associated with alterations in the structure of the intestinal microbiota in both dosing models. Perturbation of the intestinal microbiome by antibiotic treatment altered indomethacin pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, which is probably the result of reduced bacterial β-glucuronidase activity. Humans show considerable inter-individual differences in their microbiota and their responses to indomethacin - thus, the drug-microbe interactions described here provide candidate mediators of individualized drug responses.
This study investigated the Asian pear transcriptome using the RNA-Seq normalized fruit cDNA library to create a transcriptomic resource for unigene and marker discovery. Following the removal of lowquality reads, 127,085,054 trimmed reads were assembled de novo to yield 37,649 non-redundant unigenes with an average length of 599 bp. Alternative splicing events were detected in 4121 contigs. A total of 30,560 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 7443 simple sequence repeat (SSR) makers were obtained. Approximately 21,449 (56.9%) unigenes were categorized into three gene ontology groups; 3682 (9.8%) were classified into 25 cluster of orthologous groups; and 10,451 (27.8%) were assigned to six Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways. Differentially expressed genes were investigated using the reads per kilobase of the exon model per million reads methodology. A total of 546 unigenes showed significant differences in expression levels at different fruit developmental stages. Gene ontology categories associated with various aspects, including carbohydrate metabolic processes, transmembrane transport, and signal transduction, were enriched with genes with divergent expressions. These Pyrus pyrifolia transcriptome data provide a rich resource for the discovery and identification of new genes. Furthermore, the numerous putative SSRs and SNPs detected in this study will be important resources for the future development of a linkage map or of marker-assisted breeding programs for the Asian pear.
Background: Adults and larvae of generalist parasites are exposed to diverse hosts and local environmental conditions throughout their life cycles, thus local adaptation is expected to occur through phenotypic plasticity and/or natural selection. We investigated how the combined effect of cryptic host specificity and local selective pressures could shape reproductive traits of a putative generalist parasite in the oceanic realm. Methods: The LSU rDNA, ITS2 and the mt-COI of individuals of the digenean Pholeter gastrophilus (Kossack, 1910) Odhner, 1914 (Heterophyidae Leiper, 1909) from oceanic striped dolphins, Stenella coeruleoalba Meyen, and coastal bottlenose dolphins, Tursiops truncatus Montagu, in the western Mediterranean were used to elucidate whether worms were conspecific. Infection parameters were compared between both dolphin species. General Linear Mixed Models were used to analyse the influence of host species on four reproductive traits of P. gastrophilus: body size, maturity stage (non-gravid/gravid), egg size, and number of eggs in utero. AIC values were used to rank competing models, and p-values to assess the effect of specific predictors. Results: Evidence indicated that worms collected from both dolphin species were conspecific. All worms collected were gravid and infection parameters did not differ between dolphin species. However, body size and egg size of individuals of P. gastrophilus were significantly larger in striped dolphins. The number of eggs in utero did not significantly differ between dolphin species but, for a given body size, worms in bottlenose dolphins harboured more eggs. A trade-off between egg size and egg number was found in worms from both dolphin species, with a higher slope in striped dolphins. Conclusions: Apparently, striped dolphin is a more suitable host for P. gastrophilus, but reproductive investment seems to be adapted to the habitat where the life-cycle develops. Worms from striped dolphins likely face the problem of finding intermediate hosts in the oceanic realm and apparently invest into offspring size to enhance the early survival of larvae and the potential to multiply asexually within the first intermediate host. The small-sized worms from bottlenose dolphins would be adapted to reproduce early because of higher adult mortality, generating smaller and numerous eggs in a coastal habitat where chances of transmission are presumably higher.
Background: Growth arrest and DNA-damage inducible protein 45 beta (Gadd45b) is serving as a neuronal activity sensor. Brain ischemia induces the expression of Gadd45b, which stimulates recovery after stroke and may play a protective role in cerebral ischemia. However, little is known of the molecular mechanisms of how Gadd45b expression regulated and the down-stream targets in brain ischemia. Here, using an oxygen-glucose deprivation and reperfusion (OGD/R) model, we identified Huwe1/Mule/ARF-BP1, a HECT domain containing ubiquitin ligase, involved in the control of Gadd45b protein level. In this study, we also investigated the role of Huwe1-Gadd45b mediated pathway in BDNF methylation. Results: We found that the depletion of Huwe1 by lentivirus shRNA mediated interference significantly increased the expression of Gadd45b and BDNF at 24 h after OGD. Moreover, treatment with Cycloheximide (CHX) inhibited endogenous expression of Gadd45b, and promoted expression of Gadd45b after co-treated with lentivirus shRNA-Huwe1. Inhibition of Gadd45b by lentivirus shRNA decreased the expression levels of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and phosphorylated cAMP response element-binding protein (p-CREB) pathway, while inhibition of Huwe1 increased the expression levels of BDNF and p-CREB. Moreover, shRNA-Huwe1 treatment decreased the methylation level of the fifth CpG islands (123 bp apart from BDNF IXa), while shRNA-Gadd45b treatment increased the methylation level of the forth CpG islands (105 bp apart from BDNF IXa). Conclusions: These findings suggested that Huwe1 involved in the regulation of Gadd45b expression under OGD/R, providing a novel route for neurons following cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury. It also indicated that the methylation of BDNF IXa was affected by Gadd45b as well as Huwe1 in the OGD/R model.
Malt is a preferred base for fermentations that produce beer or whisky. Barley for malt is grown under diverse environments in different geographical locations. Malt provides an ecological niche for a varied range of microorganisms with both positive and negative effects on its quality for brewing. Little information exists in the literature on the microbial community structure of Australian malt as well as broader global geographical differences in the associated fungal and bacterial communities. The aims of the present study were to compare the bacterial and fungal community structures of Australian commercial malt with its international counterparts originating from different geographical regions using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP) fingerprinting and clone library analyses of ribosomal RNA genes. Further, the relationship between malt associated microbial communities and conventional malt quality parameters was also compared. Results showed that differences in fungal communities of malts from different geographical location were more pronounced than bacterial communities. TRFLP analysis discriminated high quality commercial malts with low fungal loads from malts deliberately infected with fungal inocula (Fusarium/. Penicillium). Malt moisture, beta-amylase, α-amylase and limit dextrinase contents showed significant correlations with fungal community structure. This investigation concluded that fungal community structure was more important to subsequent malt quality outcomes than bacteria.
A tobacco-specific carcinogen, 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), is believed to contribute to the cancer burden in cigarette smokers. To evaluate NNK effects on the expression of lysyl oxidase (LOX), a tumor suppressor, we examined this enzyme at various levels in NNK-treated rat fetal lung fibroblasts (RFL6). Exposure of cells to NNK reduced levels of steady-states LOX mRNA and new transcript synthesis. NNK inhibited all LOX protein species in a dose-dependent manner. Although 300 μM NNK markedly decreased the level in the 46 kDa preproenzyme, under same conditions, there was no detectable amounts of the 50 kDa proenzyme and the 32 kDa mature enzyme suggesting NNK perturbing the LOX protein processing to its mature form. Moreover, NNK also suppressed LOX activities in conditioned media of treated cells. At the promoter level, NNK enhanced methylation of CpG, but decreased acetylation of histone H3 at the core promoter region of the LOX gene. These results indicated that transcriptional and translational processes of LOX are major targets for NNK. Thus, inactivation of tumor suppressor gene LOX may play a critical role in NNK carcinogenesis.
The presence of Avocado sunblotch viroid disease (ASBV) leads to massive losses in yield and fruit quality due to defects such as skin discolouration. This severely reduces the marketability of avocado fruits and ultimately profitability. Therefore, the detection of ASBV is important in controlling this disease, as symptomless trees pose a great danger in the spread of the ASBV. However, a rapid and more sensitive method for the routine detection of infected avocado tissues by ASBV is by qualitative real-time-polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assay. Fruits produced from infected trees usually develop sunken white, yellow or pink blotches or streaks, and are usually small and deformed. Interestingly, there is no report of ASBV detection on 'Hass' avocado fruits. In this study, detection of ASBV on 'Hass' avocado fruits was based on qPCR reaction using cycling threshold values. Alternatively, the amplified PCR products were also detected using 2% w/v agarose gel electrophoresis for the presence of a 247 base pairs DNA fragment. Contrary to previous findings that the viroid was not necessarily detected in the leaves of avocado trees showing ASBV symptoms, in this study ASBV was detected in all fruits showing ASBV symptoms as well as in associated seeds.
Background: There are more than 1 million persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) in the United States and approximately 40 % of them have a history of alcohol use disorders (AUD). Chronic heavy alcohol consumption and HIV/AIDS both result in reduced lean body mass and muscle dysfunction, increasing the incidence of comorbid conditions. Previous studies from our laboratory using rhesus macaques infected with Simian Immunodeficiency Virus (SIV) demonstrated that chronic binge alcohol (CBA) administration in the absence of antiretroviral therapy exacerbates skeletal muscle (SKM) wasting at end-stage SIV disease. The aim of this study was to characterize how CBA alters global gene regulatory networks that lead to SKM wasting at end-stage disease. Administration of intragastric alcohol or sucrose to male rhesus macaques began 3 months prior to SIV infection and continued throughout the duration of study. High-output array analysis was used to determine CBA-dependent changes in mRNA expression, miRNA expression, and promoter methylation status of SKM at end-stage disease (~10 months post-SIV) from healthy control (control), sucrose-administered, SIV-infected (SUC/SIV), and CBA-administered/SIV-infected (CBA/SIV) macaques. Results: In addition to previously reported effects on the extracellular matrix and the promotion of a pro-inflammatory environment, we found that CBA adversely affects gene regulatory networks that involve "universal" cellular functions, protein homeostasis, calcium and ion homeostasis, neuronal growth and signaling, and satellite cell growth and survival. Conclusions: The results from this study provide an overview of the impact of CBA on gene regulatory networks involved in biological functions, including transcriptional and epigenetic processes, illustrating the genetic and molecular mechanisms associated with CBA-dependent SKM wasting at end-stage SIV infection.
Reoviruses are non-enveloped viruses with a segmented double stranded RNA genome. In humans, they are not associated with serious disease. Human reoviruses exhibit an inherent preference to replicate in tumor cells, which makes them ideally suited for use in oncolytic virotherapies. Their use as anti-cancer agent has been evaluated in several clinical trials, which revealed that intra-tumoral and systemic delivery of reoviruses are well tolerated. Despite evidence of anti-tumor effects, the efficacy of reovirus in anti-cancer monotherapy needs to be further enhanced. The opportunity to treat both the primary tumor as well as metastases makes systemic delivery a preferred administration route. Several pre-clinical studies have been conducted to address the various hurdles connected to systemic delivery of reoviruses. The majority of those studies have been done in tumor-bearing immune-deficient murine models. This thwarts studies on the impact of the contribution of the immune system to the tumor cell eradication. This review focuses on key aspects of the reovirus/host-cell interactions and the methods that are available to modify the virus to alter these interactions. These aspects are discussed with a focus on improving the reovirus’ antitumor efficacy.
Background: Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is an inherited disease mainly found in young people causing malignant arrhythmias which can result in sudden cardiac death. Due to unspecific symptoms the diagnosis of ARVC is still challenging and requires clinical testing and expert knowledge. Genetic testing of index patients is helpful in the primary diagnosis and further testing of family members may allow for prevention of sudden cardiac death. Case presentation: We report a case of newly diagnosed ARVC where genetic testing identified a novel familial frame-shift mutation in the PKP2 gene. Screening of the family members identified both children and the father as mutation carriers following an autosomal-dominant inheritance pattern. Conclusion: Our findings emphasize the importance of genetic family screening after the identification of a causative mutation in an index case.
Summary The structure of genetic interaction networks predicts that, analogous to synthetic lethal interactions between non-essential genes, combinations of compounds with latent activities may exhibit potent synergism. To test this hypothesis, we generated a chemical-genetic matrix of 195 diverse yeast deletion strains treated with 4,915 compounds. This approach uncovered 1,221 genotype-specific inhibitors, which we termed cryptagens. Synergism between 8,128 structurally disparate cryptagen pairs was assessed experimentally and used to benchmark predictive algorithms. A model based on the chemical-genetic matrix and the genetic interaction network failed to accurately predict synergism. However, a combined random forest and Naive Bayesian learner that associated chemical structural features with genotype-specific growth inhibition had strong predictive power. This approach identified previously unknown compound combinations that exhibited species-selective toxicity toward human fungal pathogens. This work demonstrates that machine learning methods trained on unbiased chemical-genetic interaction data may be widely applicable for the discovery of synergistic combinations in different species.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Genome editing with the clustered, regularly interspaced, short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-Cas9 nuclease system is a powerful technology for manipulating genomes, including introduction of gene disruptions or corrections. Here we develop a chemically modified, 29-nucleotide synthetic CRISPR RNA (scrRNA), which in combination with unmodified transactivating crRNA (tracrRNA) is shown to functionally replace the natural guide RNA in the CRISPRCas9 nuclease system and to mediate efficient genome editing in human cells. Incorporation of rational chemical modifications known to protect against nuclease digestion and stabilize RNA-RNA interactions in the tracrRNA hybridization region of CRISPR RNA (crRNA) yields a scrRNA with enhanced activity compared with the unmodified crRNA and comparable gene disruption activity to the previously published single guide RNA. Taken together, these findings provide a platform for therapeutic applications, especially for nervous system disease, using successive application of cell-permeable, synthetic CRISPR RNAs to activate and then silence Cas9 nuclease activity.
Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is an inherited disease characterized by the inability to relax contracted muscles. Affected individuals carry large CTG expansions that are toxic when transcribed. One possible treatment approach is to reduce or eliminate transcription of CTG repeats. Actinomycin D (ActD) is a potent transcription inhibitor and FDA-approved chemotherapeutic that binds GC-rich DNA with high affinity. Here, we report that ActD decreased CUG transcript levels in a dose-dependent manner in DM1 cell and mouse models at significantly lower concentrations (nanomolar) compared to its use as a general transcription inhibitor or chemotherapeutic. ActD also significantly reversed DM1-associated splicing defects in a DM1 mouse model, and did so within the currently approved human treatment range. RNA-seq analyses showed that low concentrations of ActD did not globally inhibit transcription in a DM1 mouse model. These results indicate that transcription inhibition of CTG expansions is a promising treatment approach for DM1.
In the present study, the complete mitochondrial genome sequence of Labeo gonius is reported using PGM sequencer (Ion Torrent). The complete mitogenome of L. gonius is obtained by the de novo sequences assembly of genomic reads using the Torrent Mapping Alignment Program (TMAP) which is 16 614 bp in length. The mitogenome of L. gonius comprised of 13 protein-coding genes, 22 tRNAs, 2 rRNA genes, and D-loop as control region along with gene order and organization, being similar to most of other fish mitogenomes of NCBI databases. The mitogenome in the present study has 99% similarity to the complete mitogenome sequence of Labeo fimbriatus, as reported earlier. The phylogenetic analysis of Cypriniformes depicted that their mitogenomes are closely related to each other. The complete mitogenome sequence of L. gonius would be helpful in understanding the population genetics, phylogenetics, and evolution of Indian Carps.
Chemotherapy of a combination of DNA alkylating agents, procarbazine and lomustine (CCNU), and a microtubule poison, vincristine, offers a significant benefit to a subset of glioma patients. The benefit of this regimen, known as PCV, was recently linked to IDH mutation that occurs frequently in glioma and produces D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2-HG), a competitive inhibitor of α-ketoglutarate (α-KG). We report here that D-2-HG inhibits the α-KG-dependent alkB homolog (ALKBH) DNA repair enzymes. Cells expressing mutant IDH display reduced repair kinetics, accumulate more DNA damages, and are sensitized to alkylating agents. The observed sensitization to alkylating agents requires the catalytic activity of mutant IDH to produce D-2-HG and can be reversed by the deletion of mutant IDH allele or overexpression of ALKBH2 or AKLBH3. Our results suggest that impairment of DNA repair may contribute to tumorigenesis driven by IDH mutations and that alkylating agents may merit exploration for treating IDH-mutated cancer patients.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the prokaryotic community structure of the anaerobic ciliate, Metopus sp. using rRNA sequencing, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Metopus sp. was physically separated from anaerobic granular sludge in a domestic wastewater treatment plant and anoxically cultivated for 7 d. 16S rRNA gene sequences from the prokaryotes Methanoregula boonei and Clostridium aminobutyricum were abundantly detected in Metopus ciliates. The FISH analysis using the oligonucleotide probes Mg1200b and Cla568 demonstrated that these prokaryotes were localized within Metopus cells. These results identify M. boonei- and C. aminobutyricum-like prokaryotes as novel endosymbionts of Metopus ciliates.
Recent advances in RNA-sequencing technology have enabled the discovery of gene fusion transcripts in the transcriptome of cancer cells. However, it remains difficult to differentiate the therapeutically targetable fusions from passenger events. We have analyzed RNA-sequencing data and DNA copy number data from 25 endometrial cancer cell lines to identify potential therapeutically targetable fusion transcripts, and have identified 124 high-confidence fusion transcripts, of which 69% are associated with gene amplifications. As targetable fusion candidates, we focused on three in-frame kinase fusion transcripts that retain a kinase domain (CPQ-PRKDC, CAPZA2-MET, and VGLL4-PRKG1). We detected only CPQ-PRKDC fusion transcript in three of 122 primary endometrial cancer tissues. Cell proliferation of the fusion-positive cell line was inhibited by knocking down the expression of wild-type PRKDC but not by blocking the CPQ-PRKDC fusion transcript expression. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR demonstrated that the expression of the CPQ-PRKDC fusion transcript was significantly lower than that of wild-type PRKDC, corresponding to a low transcript allele fraction of this fusion, based on RNA-sequencing read counts. In endometrial cancers, the CPQ-PRKDC fusion transcript may be a passenger aberration related to gene amplification. Our findings suggest that transcript allele fraction is a useful predictor to find bona-fide therapeutic-targetable fusion transcripts.
Eight genotypes of potato plants with different resistance levels against common scab were grown in a field infested with Streptomyces turgidiscabies. DNA was extracted from the roots, tubers, and rhizosphere soils of each of the eight genotypes at the flowering stage, and the quantity of S. turgidiscabies genomic DNA was assessed by real-time PCR using a TaqMan probe. The results obtained showed that the different potato genotypes had significant impacts on the population levels of S. turgidiscabies between resistant and susceptible genotypes in the tubers, but not in the roots or rhizosphere soils. Clone analyses of 16S rRNA gene libraries from the eight potato genotypes identified three phyla (Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, and Actinobacteria) as dominant taxa in root and tuber clone libraries, while a clustering analysis identified 391 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) at the species level. Eleven OTUs closely related to Aquicella siphonis, Arthrobacter nicotinovorans, Streptomyces rishiriensis, Rhodococcus baikonurensis, Rhizobium radiobacter, Rhizobium etli, Phyllobacterium myrsinacearum, Paenibacillus pabuli, Paenibacillus alginolyticus, and Bacillus halmapalus were detected in the root or tuber libraries of all the potato genotypes examined. Furthermore, an abundance of OTUs related to Aquicella and Rhodococcus was observed in the rhizospheres of resistant and susceptible potato genotypes, respectively. Based on this ecological information, an efficient survey may be conducted for biological agents from the potato rhizosphere.
Orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT) is engaged in de novo pyrimidine synthesis. It catalyzes oronitine to uridine monophosphate (UMP), which is used for RNA synthesis. De novo pyrimidine synthesis has long been known to play an important role in providing DNA/RNA precursors for rapid proliferative activity of cancer cells. Furthermore, chemotherapeutic drug 5-fluorouracil (5- FU) is taken up into cancer cells and is converted to 5-fluoro-UMP (FUMP) by OPRT or to 5-fluoro- dUMP (FdUMP) through intermediary molecules by thymidine phosphorylase. These 5-FU metabolites are misincorporated into DNA/RNA, thereby producing dysfunction of these information processing. However, it remains unclear how the subcellular localization of OPRT and how its variable expression levels affect the response to 5-FU at the cellular level. In this study, immunocytochemical analysis reveals that OPRT localizes to the Golgi complex. Results also show that not only overexpression but also downregulation of OPRT render cells susceptible to 5-FU exposure, but it has no effect on DNA damaging agent doxorubicin. This study provides clues to elucidate the cellular response to 5-FU chemotherapy in relation to the OPRT expression level.
Exosomes are small membrane-bound vesicles secreted by cells that function to shuttle RNA and proteins between cells. To examine the role of exosomal micro RNA (miRNA) during the early stage of HIV-1 infection we characterized miRNA in exosomes from HIV-infected macrophages, compared with exosomes from non-infected macrophages. Primary human monocytes from uninfected donors were differentiated to macrophages (MDM) which were either mock-infected or infected with the macrophage-tropic HIV-1 BaL strain. Exosomes were recovered from culture media and separated from virus particles by centrifugation on iodixanol density gradients. The low molecular weight RNA fraction was prepared from purified exosomes. After pre-amplification, RNA was hybridized to microarrays containing probes for 1200 miRNA species of known andunknown function. We observed 48 miRNA species in both infected and uninfected MDM exosomes. Additionally, 38 miRNAs were present in infected-cell exosomes but not uninfected-cell exosomes. Of these, 13 miRNAs were upregulated in exosomes from HIV-infected cells, including 4 miRNA species that were increased by more than 10-fold. Though numerous miRNA species have been identified in HIV-infected cells, relatively little is known about miRNA content in exosomes from these cells. In the future, we plan to investigate whether the upregulated miRNA species we identified are increased in exosomes from HIV-1-positive patients.
Zebrafish are able to regenerate various organs and tissues after damage or amputation. To understand better the genetic controls of this process, the authors of this study investigated the expression of two genes previously implicated in fin regeneration using semi-quantitative RT-PCR, at three time points after fin amputation (T1, T2, and T3 in Fig. 1, corresponding to the initiation, middle, and end of fin regeneration, respectively). Briefly, the RT-PCR procedure involved isolating messenger RNA (mRNA) from a matched amount of zebrafish cells from the site of fin regeneration at the three time points, and using primers specific to each gene to selectively detect mRNA as an indicator of gene expression levels. The authors used total genomic DNA isolated from zebrafish cells as a positive control, and no RNA or DNA template as a negative control. They found that Gene 1 was only expressed early on in the process, while Gene 2 expression gradually increased during fin regeneration, reaching a peak of expression toward the end of the process. This provides some detailed information that could be useful in elucidating the function of these genes in fin regeneration.
The transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) signaling pathway exerts opposing effects on cancer cells, acting as either a tumor promoter or a tumor suppressor. Here, we show that these opposing effects are a result of the synergy between SMAD3, a downstream effector of TGF-β signaling, and the distinct epigenomes of breast-tumor-initiating cells (BTICs). These effects of TGF-β are associated with distinct gene expression programs, but genomic SMAD3 binding patterns are highly similar in the BTIC-promoting and BTIC-suppressing contexts. Our data show cell-type-specific patterns of DNA and histone modifications provide a modulatory layer by determining accessibility of genes to regulation by TGF-β/SMAD3. LBH, one such context-specific target gene, is regulated according to its DNA methylation status and is crucial for TGF-β-dependent promotion of BTICs. Overall, these results reveal that the epigenome plays a central and previously overlooked role in shaping the context-specific effects of TGF-β in cancer.
JAK2V617F is the most common oncogenic lesion in patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs). Despite the ability of JAK2V617F to instigate DNA damage in vitro, MPNs are nevertheless characterized by genomic stability. In this study, we address this paradox by identifying the DNA helicase RECQL5 as a suppressor of genomic instability in MPNs. We report increased RECQL5 expression in JAK2V617F-expressing cells and demonstrate that RECQL5 is required to counteract JAK2V617F-induced replication stress. Moreover, RECQL5 depletion sensitizes JAK2V617F mutant cells to hydroxyurea (HU), a pharmacological inducer of replication stress and the most common treatment for MPNs. Using single-fiber chromosome combing, we show that RECQL5 depletion in JAK2V617F mutant cells impairs replication dynamics following HU treatment, resulting in increased double-stranded breaks and apoptosis. Cumulatively, these findings identify RECQL5 as a critical regulator of genome stability in MPNs and demonstrate that replication stress-associated cytotoxicity can be amplified specifically in JAK2V617F mutant cells through RECQL5-targeted synthetic lethality.
An enduring mystery of evolutionary genomics concerns the mechanisms responsible for lineage-specific expansions of genome size in eukaryotes, especially in multicellular species. One idea is that all excess DNA is mutationally hazardous, but weakly enough so that genome-size expansion passively emerges in species experiencing relatively low efficiency of selection owing to small effective population sizes. Another idea is that substantial gene additions were impossible without the energetic boost provided by the colonizing mitochondrion in the eukaryotic lineage. Contrary to this latter view, analysis of cellular energetics and genomics data from a wide variety of species indicates that, relative to the lifetime ATP requirements of a cell, the costs of a gene at the DNA, RNA, and protein levels decline with cell volume in both bacteria and eukaryotes. Moreover, these costs are usually sufficiently large to be perceived by natural selection in bacterial populations, but not in eukaryotes experiencing high levels of random genetic drift. Thus, for scaling reasons that are not yet understood, by virtue of their large size alone, eukaryotic cells are subject to a broader set of opportunities for the colonization of novel genes manifesting weakly advantageous or even transiently disadvantageous phenotypic effects. These results indicate that the origin of the mitochondrion was not a prerequisite for genome-size expansion.
Circadian rhythms offer temporal control of anticipatory physiologic adaptations in animals. In the mammalian cardiovascular system, the importance of these rhythms is underscored by increased cardiovascular disease in shift workers, findings recapitulated in experimental animal models. However, a nodal regulator that allows integration of central and peripheral information and coordinates cardiac rhythmic output has been elusive. Here, we show that kruppel-like factor 15 (KLF15) governs a biphasic transcriptomic oscillation in the heart with a maximum ATP production phase and a remodeling and repair phase corresponding to the active and resting phase of a rodent. Depletion of KLF15 in cardiomyocytes leads to a disorganized oscillatory behavior without phasic partition despite an intact core clock. Thus, KLF15 is a nodal connection between the clock and meaningful rhythmicity in the heart.
Hereditary Hearing Loss (HHL) is an extremely heterogeneous disorder. Approximately 30 out of 80 known HHL genes are associated with autosomal dominant forms. Here, we identified PSIP1/LEDGF (isoform p75) as a novel strong candidate gene involved in dominant HHL. Using exome sequencing we found a frameshift deletion (c.1554-1555del leading to p.E518Dfs∗2) in an Italian pedigree affected by sensorineural mild-to-moderate HHL but also showing a variable eye phenotype (i.e. uveitis, optic neuropathy). This deletion led to a premature stop codon (p.T519X) with truncation of the last 12 amino acids. PSIP1 was recently described as a transcriptional co-activator regulated by miR-135b in vestibular hair cells of the mouse inner ear as well as a possible protector against photoreceptor degeneration. Here, we demonstrate that it is ubiquitously expressed in the mouse inner ear. The PSIP1 mutation is associated with a peculiar audiometric slope toward the high frequencies. These findings indicate that PSIP1 likely plays an important role in HHL.
Kultanov, Raushan S. Dosmagambetova, Svetlana A. Ivasenko, Yelena S. Tatina, Assel A. Kelmyalene, Lyazzat H. Assenova.BACKGROUND: Extreme environmental situation in the Aral crisis has caused a massive chemical pollution of the territory for decades with high doses of pesticides, herbicides. Discharge of industrial waste into the rivers that feed the Aral Sea has lead to the development of various pathological processes in the human body, as well as disruption of reproductive function in young men. AIM: To evaluate the performance of molecular cellular changes in the sperm of men under the influence of dust and salt aerosols in Aral Sea region. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Clinical and laboratory studies were conducted in men 5 settlements (Aralsk-city, v. Aiteke-Bi, v. Zhalagash, v. Zhusaly, v. Shieli). We have studied male ejaculate obtained after 4-5 days of abstinence, and placed it in a warm tube with a glass stopper. On the investigation proceeded ejaculate within 20-30 minutes after its preparation, during which time he was subjected to liquefaction. Isolation and quantification of ASF, RNA, DNA, and determining the fraction of histones in sperm was performed by the method of Markusheva and Savina. RESULTS: It was found that the value of ASF in the semen of men living in the zone of ecological disaster higher compared with the values of parameters in men living in the area of environmental crisis, and this trend is observed in all age groups. The study of circulating extracellular DNA and RNA in the sperm of men registered their decline with a corresponding increase of acid precursors that can be attributed to the degradation of nucleic acids under the influence of negative factors in the complex area of ecological trouble. Also, according to a study in men residing in the areas of environmental catastrophe at the age of 18-29 years, found an increased content of the H1 histone H2A lower total fraction, H3, H4 - and a sharp increase in histone H2B content - histones. CONCLUSIONS: Men living in environmentally disadvantaged areas of Kyzylorda region under the influence of dust and salt aerosols and other toxicants leads to disruption of the reproductive function in men.
In recent years, the industrial use of lead has been significantly reduced from paints and ceramic products, caulking, and pipe solder. Despite this progress, lead exposure continues to be a significant public health concern. The main goal of this research was to determine the in vitro mechanisms of lead nitrate [Pb(NO3)2] to induce DNA damage, apoptosis, and cell cycle arrest in human leukemia (HL-60) cells. To reach our goal, HL-60 cells were treated with different concentrations of Pb(NO3)2 for 24 h. Live cells and necrotic death cells were measured by the propidium idiode (PI) assay using the cellometer vision. Cell apoptosis was measured by the flow cytometry and DNA laddering. Cell cycle analysis was evaluated by the flow cytometry. The result of the PI demonstrated a significant (p < 0.05) increase of necrotic cell death in Pb(NO3)2-treated cells, indicative of membrane rupture by Pb(NO3)2 compared to the control. Data generated from thecomet assay indicated a concentration-dependent increase in DNA damage, showing a significant increase (p < 0.05) in comet tail-length and percentages of DNA cleavage. Data generated from the flow cytometry assessment indicated that Pb(NO3)2 exposure significantly (p < 0.05) increased the proportion of caspase-3 positive cells (apoptotic cells) compared to the control. The flow cytometry assessment also indicated Pb(NO3)2 exposure caused cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 checkpoint. The result of DNA laddering assay showed presence of DNA smear in the agarose gel with littlepresence of DNA fragments in the treated cells compared to the control. In summary, Pb(NO3)2 inhibits HL-60 cells proliferation by not only inducing DNA damage and cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 checkpoint but also triggering the apoptosis through caspase-3 activation and nucleosomal DNA fragmentation accompanied by secondary necrosis. We believe that our study provides a new insight into the mechanisms of Pb(NO3)2 exposure and its associated adverse health effects.
Background: SAFB1 is a RNA binding protein implicated in the regulation of multiple cellular processes such as the regulation of transcription, stress response, DNA repair and RNA processing. To gain further insight into SAFB1 function we used iCLIP and mapped its interaction with RNA on a genome wide level. Results: iCLIP analysis found SAFB1 binding was enriched, specifically in exons, ncRNAs, 3' and 5' untranslated regions. SAFB1 was found to recognise a purine-rich GAAGA motif with the highest frequency and it is therefore likely to bind core AGA, GAA, or AAG motifs. Confirmatory RT-PCR experiments showed that the expression of coding and non-coding genes with SAFB1 cross-link sites was altered by SAFB1 knockdown. For example, we found that the isoform-specific expression of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM1) and ASTN2 was influenced by SAFB1 and that the processing of miR-19a from the miR-17-92 cluster was regulated by SAFB1. These data suggest SAFB1 may influence alternative splicing and, using an NCAM1 minigene, we showed that SAFB1 knockdown altered the expression of two of the three NCAM1 alternative spliced isoforms. However, when the AGA, GAA, and AAG motifs were mutated, SAFB1 knockdown no longer mediated a decrease in the NCAM1 9-10 alternative spliced form. To further investigate the association of SAFB1 with splicing we used exon array analysis and found SAFB1 knockdown mediated the statistically significant up- and downregulation of alternative exons. Further analysis using RNAmotifs to investigate the frequency of association between the motif pairs (AGA followed by AGA, GAA or AAG) and alternative spliced exons found there was a highly significant correlation with downregulated exons. Together, our data suggest SAFB1 will play an important physiological role in the central nervous system regulating synaptic function. We found that SAFB1 regulates dendritic spine density in hippocampal neurons and hence provide empirical evidence supporting this conclusion. Conclusions: iCLIP showed that SAFB1 has previously uncharacterised specific RNA binding properties that help coordinate the isoform-specific expression of coding and non-coding genes. These genes regulate splicing, axonal and synaptic function, and are associated with neuropsychiatric disease, suggesting that SAFB1 is an important regulator of key neuronal processes.
Balance between cell growth and proliferation determines cell size homeostasis, but little is known about how metabolic pathways are involved in the maintenance of this balance. Here, we perform a screen with a library of clinically used drug molecules for their effects on cell size. We find that statins, inhibitors of the mevalonate pathway, reduce cell proliferation and increase cell size and cellular protein density in various cell types, including primary human cells. Mevalonate pathway effects on cell size and protein density are mediated through geranylgeranylation of the small GTPase RAB11, which is required for basal autophagic flux. Our results identify the mevalonate pathway as a metabolic regulator of autophagy and expose a paradox in the regulation of cell size and proteostasis, where inhibition of an anabolic pathway can cause an increase in cell size and cellular protein density.
MicroRNAs are short (17-24 nt) non-coding RNAs that are involved in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in multicellular organisms by affecting both the stability and translation of mRNAs. In recent years, deep sequencing of the transcriptome is increasingly being utilized with the promise of higher sensitivity for the identification of differential expression patterns as well as the opportunity to discover new transcripts, including new alternative isoforms and miRNAs. Here, we utilized RNA-seq technology to perform a genome-wide analysis of miRNAs from the adipose tissue of the two species of sheep to look for clues that might explain the fat deposition differences between the sheep. The RNA-seq analysis detected 3132 miRNAs from the adipose tissue of the Small-tail Han and Dorset sheep, of which 2893 were defined as potential new miRNAs. In addition, 54 miRNAs were differentially expressed between the two breeds of sheep. Gene ontology and pathway analyses of the predicted target genes that negatively associated with the differentially expressed miRNAs revealed that there was less active lipid metabolism in the adipose tissue of Small Tail Han sheep. This study can help understand the underling mechanisms responsible for the morphological differences related to fat deposition between two breeds of sheep.
Viruses are considered key players in phytoplankton population control in oceans. However, mechanisms that control viral gene expression in prominent microalgae such as diatoms remain largely unknown. In this study, potential promoter regions isolated from several marine diatom-infecting viruses (DIVs) were linked to the egfp reporter gene and transformed into the Pennales diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum. We analysed their activity in cells grown under different conditions. Compared to diatom endogenous promoters, novel DIV promoter (ClP1) mediated a significantly higher degree of reporter transcription and translation. Stable expression levels were observed in transformants grown under both light and dark conditions, and high levels of expression were reported in cells in the stationary phase compared to the exponential phase of growth. Conserved motifs in the sequence of DIV promoters were also found. These results allow the identification of novel regulatory regions that drive DIV gene expression and further examinations of the mechanisms that control virus-mediated bloom control in diatoms. Moreover, the identified ClP1 promoter can serve as a novel tool for metabolic engineering of diatoms. This is the first report describing a promoter of DIVs that may be of use in basic and applied diatom research.
The genetic map of a species is essential for its whole genome assembly and can be applied to the mapping of important traits. In this study, we performed RNA-seq for a family of large yellow croakers (Larimichthys crocea) and constructed a high-density genetic map. In this map, 24 linkage groups comprised 3,448 polymorphic SNP markers. Approximately 72.4% (2,495) of the markers were located in protein-coding regions. Comparison of the croaker genome with those of five model fish species revealed that the croaker genome structure was closer to that of the medaka than to the remaining four genomes. Because the medaka genome preserves the teleost ancestral karyotype, this result indicated that the croaker genome might also maintain the teleost ancestral genome structure. The analysis also revealed different genome rearrangements across teleosts. QTL mapping and association analysis consistently identified growth-related QTL regions and associated genes. Orthologs of the associated genes in other species were demonstrated to regulate development, indicating that these genes might regulate development and growth in croaker. This gene map will enable us to construct the croaker genome for comparative studies and to provide an important resource for selective breeding of croaker.
Background: Seminal fluid proteins control many aspects of fertilization and in turn, they play a key role in post-mating sexual selection and possibly reproductive isolation. Because effective proteome profiling relies on the availability of high-quality DNA reference databases, our knowledge of these proteins is still largely limited to model organisms with ample genetic resources. New advances in sequencing technology allow for the rapid characterization of transcriptomes at low cost. By combining high throughput RNA-seq and shotgun proteomic profiling, we have characterized the seminal fluid proteins secreted by the primary male accessory gland of the migratory grasshopper (Melanoplus sanguinipes), one of the main agricultural pests in central North America. Results: Using RNA sequencing, we characterized the transcripts of ~ 8,100 genes expressed in the long hyaline tubules (LHT) of the accessory glands. Proteomic profiling identified 353 proteins expressed in the long hyaline tubules (LHT). Of special interest are seminal fluid proteins (SFPs), such as EJAC-SP, ACE and prostaglandin synthetases, which are known to regulate female oviposition in insects. Conclusions: Our study provides new insights into the proteomic components of male ejaculate in Orthopterans, and highlights several important patterns. First, the presence of proteins that lack predicted classical secretory tags in accessory gland proteomes is common in male accessory glands. Second, the products of a few highly expressed genes dominate the accessory gland secretions. Third, accessory gland transcriptomes are enriched for novel transcripts. Fourth, there is conservation of SFPs' functional classes across distantly related taxonomic groups with very different life histories, mating systems and sperm transferring mechanisms. The identified SFPs may serve as targets of future efforts to develop species- specific genetic control strategies.
Genome editing is the process of precisely modifying the nucleotide sequence of the genome. It has provided a powerful approach to research questions but, with the development of a new set of tools, it is now possible to achieve frequencies of genome editing that are high enough to be useful therapeutically. Genome editing is being developed to treat not only monogenic diseases but also infectious diseases and diseases that have both a genetic and an environmental component.
Background:In order to investigate the mechanisms of acquired resistance to trabectedin, trabectedin-resistant human myxoid liposarcoma (402-91/T) and ovarian carcinoma (A2780/T) cell lines were derived and characterised in vitro and in vivo.Methods:Resistant cell lines were obtained by repeated exposures to trabectedin. Characterisation was performed by evaluating drug sensitivity, cell cycle perturbations, DNA damage and DNA repair protein expression. In vivo experiments were performed on A2780 and A2780/T xenografts.Results:402-91/T and A2780/T cells were six-fold resistant to trabectedin compared with parental cells. Resistant cells were found to be hypersensitive to UV light and did not express specific proteins involved in the nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway: XPF and ERCC1 in 402-91/T and XPG in A2780/T. NER deficiency in trabectedin-resistant cells was associated with the absence of a G2/M arrest induced by trabectedin and with enhanced sensitivity (two-fold) to platinum drugs. In A2780/T, this collateral sensitivity, confirmed in vivo, was associated with an increased formation of DNA interstrand crosslinks.Conclusions:Our finding that resistance to trabectedin is associated with the loss of NER function, with a consequent increased sensitivity to platinum drugs, provides the rational for sequential use of these drugs in patients who have acquired resistance to trabectedin.
We evaluated the influence of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) gene inhibition in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) cell line SKM-1 on enhancement of the demethylating effects of decitabine on p15, and explored the possible mechanism. DNMT1 gene expression in SKM-1 cells was silenced by being transfected by a constructed siRNA with liposomes. The proliferation inhibition rates after drug treatment were detected by cell counting kit-8 assay. The apoptotic rates were detected by Annexin V/PI assay with flow cytometry. The expressions of p16, p15, TP73, CDH1, ESR1, and PDLIM4 mRNAs were detected by real-time PCR, and those of HO-1, DNMT1, DNMT3A, DNMT3B, HDAC, and p15 proteins were measured by western blot. The degree of methylation of the p15 gene was analyzed by using methylation-specific PCR (MSP). CCK-8 assay showed that after HO-1 gene expression was inhibited; the proliferation rate of SKM-1 cells treated by decitabine (70.91 ± 0.05%) was significantly higher than that of the control group (53.67 ± 0.05%). Flow cytometry showed that the apoptotic rate of SKM- 1 cells treated by decitabine in combination with HO-1 expression inhibition (44.25 ± 0.05%) exceeded that of the cells treated by this drug alone (37.70 ± 0.05%). MSP showed that inhibiting HO-1 expression significantly increased the degree of methylation of the p15 gene. As suggested by western blot, the degree of methylation of the p15 protein was changed after decitabine treatment when the expression of the HO-1 protein was changed, being associated with the affected DNMT1 expression. Inhibited HO-1 expression attenuated the hypermethylation of CDKN2B by suppressing DNMT1, which was conducive to treatment by cooperating with decitabine. In conclusion, the findings of this study provide valuable experimental evidence for targeted MDS therapy, and a theoretical basis for further studies.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most commonly diagnosed cancer as well as the greatest source of cancer-related mortality in males of African ancestry (MoAA). Interestingly, this has been shown to be associated with single nucleotide polymorphisms around regions 2 and 3 of the 8q24 human chromosomal region. The non-protein coding gene locus Plasmacytoma Variant Translocation 1 (PVT1) is located at 8q24 and is overexpressed in PCa and, therefore, is also a candidate biomarker to explain the well-known disparity in this group. PVT1 has at least 12 exons that make separate transcripts which may have different functions, all of which are at present unknown in PCa. Our aim was to determine if any PVT1 transcripts play a role in aggressiveness and racial disparity in PCa. We used a panel of seven PCa cell lines including three derived from MoAA. Ribonucleic acid extraction, complementary deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis, and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) were performed to evaluate expression of all 12 PVT1 exons. Each qPCR was performed in quadruplicates. At least four separate qPCR experiments were performed. Expression of PVT1 exons was inconsistent except for exon 9. There was no significant difference in exon 9 expression between cell lines derived from Caucasian males (CM), and an indolent cell line derived from MoAA. However, exon 9 expression in the aggressive MDA PCa 2b and E006AA-hT cell lines derived from MoAA was significantly higher than in other cell lines.Consequently, we observed differential expression of exon 9 of PVT1 in a manner that suggests that PVT1 exon 9 may be associated with aggressive PCa in MoAA.
Whole genome duplications (WGD) have had strong impacts on species diversification by triggering evolutionary novelties, however, relatively little is known about the balance between gene loss and forces involved in the retention of duplicated genes originating from a WGD. We analyzed putative Salicoid duplicates in willows, originating from the Salicoid WGD, which took place more than 45 Mya. Contigs were constructed by de novo assembly of RNA-seq data derived from leaves and roots from two genotypes. Among the 48,508 contigs, 3,778 pairs were, based on fourfold synonymous third-codon transversion rates and syntenic positions, predicted to be Salicoid duplicates. Both copies were in most cases expressed in both tissues and 74% were significantly differentially expressed. Mean Ka/Ks was 0.23, suggesting that the Salicoid duplicates are evolving by purifying selection. Gene Ontology enrichment analyses showed that functions related to DNA- and nucleic acid binding were over-represented among the non-differentially expressed Salicoid duplicates, while functions related to biosynthesis and metabolism were over-represented among the differentially expressed Salicoid duplicates. We propose that the differentially expressed Salicoid duplicates are regulatory neo- and/or subfunctionalized, while the non-differentially expressed are dose sensitive, hence, functionally conserved. Multiple evolutionary processes, thus drive the retention of Salicoid duplicates in willows.
Alternative splicing of pre-mRNA helps to enhance the genetic diversity within mammalian cells by increasing the number of protein isoforms that can be generated from one gene product. This provides a great deal of flexibility to the host cell to alter protein function, but when dysregulation in splicing occurs this can have important impact on health and disease. Alternative splicing is widely used in the mammalian immune system to control the development and function of antigen specific lymphocytes. In this review we will examine the splicing of pre-mRNAs yielding key proteins in the immune system that regulate apoptosis, lymphocyte differentiation, activation and homeostasis, and discuss how defects in splicing can contribute to diseases. We will describe how disruption to trans-acting factors, such as heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs), can impact on cell survival and differentiation in the immune system.
Horse gastrointestinal myiasis caused by larvae of Gasterophilus spp. has a worldwide distribution. However, little information is available on the genetic variation of Gasterophilus spp. at the molecular level. In the present study, sequence variation was examined in three mitochondrial (mt) genes, namely mt cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 (cox1), NADH dehydrogenase subunits 5 (nad5) and large subunit ribosomal RNA (rrnL), among G. intestinalis isolates originating from Heilongjiang Provience and Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China. The complete cox1, nad5, and rrnL gene sequences were amplified by PCR separately from adult G. intestinalis individuals and the amplicons were sequenced from both directions. The size of the sequences of cox1, nad5, and rrnL genes was 1539 bp, 1717 bp, and 1321 bp, respectively. The A + T contents of the sequences were 62.7–63.9% (cox1), 70–70.7% (nad5), and 74.5–74.9% (rrnL). The intra-specific sequence variations within G. intestinalis were 0.1–3.1% for cox1, 0.4–3.4% for nad5, and 0.1–1.5% for rrnL. Phylogenetic analyses based on the cox1 sequences using the Bayesian inference indicated that all the G. intestinalis isolates grouped together with high statistical support. These findings demonstrated clearly the usefulness of mt cox1, nad5, and rrnL sequences for the molecular identification and for studying population genetics of G. intestinalis in horses.
Accurate measurement of the amount of specific protein a cell produces is important for investigating basic molecular processes. We have developed a technique that allows for quantitation of protein levels in single cells in vivo. This protein quantitation ratioing (PQR) technique uses a genetic tag that produces a stoichiometric ratio of a fluorescent protein reporter and the protein of interest during protein translation. The fluorescence intensity is proportional to the number of molecules produced of the protein of interest and is used to determine the relative amount of protein within the cell. We use PQR to quantify protein expression of different genes using quantitative imaging, electrophysiology, and phenotype. We use genome editing to insert Protein Quantitation Reporters into endogenous genomic loci in three different genomes for quantitation of endogenous protein levels. The PQR technique will allow for a wide range of quantitative experiments examining gene-to-phenotype relationships with greater accuracy.
Stem cell self-renewal and differentiation are coordinated to maintain tissue homeostasis and prevent cancer. Mutations causing stem cell proliferation are traditionally the focus of cancer studies. However, the contribution of the differentiating stem cell progenies in tumorigenesis is poorly characterized. Here we report that loss of the SOX transcription factor, Sox21a, blocks the differentiation programme of enteroblast (EB), the intestinal stem cell progeny in the adult Drosophila midgut. This results in EB accumulation and formation of tumours. Sox21a tumour initiation and growth involve stem cell proliferation induced by the unpaired 2 mitogen released from accumulating EBs generating a feed-forward loop. EBs found in the tumours are heterogeneous and grow towards the intestinal lumen. Sox21a tumours modulate their environment by secreting matrix metalloproteinase and reactive oxygen species. Enterocytes surrounding the tumours are eliminated through delamination allowing tumour progression, a process requiring JNK activation. Our data highlight the tumorigenic properties of transit differentiating cells.
After the discovery of retroviral reverse transcriptase in 1970, there was a flurry of activity, sparked by the "War on Cancer," to identify human cancer retroviruses. After many false claims resulting from various artifacts, most scientists abandoned the search, but the Gallo laboratory carried on, developing both specific assays and new cell culture methods that enabled them to report, in the accompanying 1980 PNAS paper, identification and partial characterization of human T-cell leukemia virus (HTLV; now known as HTLV-1) produced by a T-cell line from a lymphoma patient. Follow-up studies, including collaboration with the group that first identified a cluster of adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) cases in Japan, provided conclusive evidence that HTLV was the cause of this disease. HTLV-1 is now known to infect at least 4-10 million people worldwide, about 5% of whom will develop ATL. Despite intensive research, knowledge of the viral etiology has not led to improvement in treatment or outcome of ATL. However, the technology for discovery of HTLV and acknowledgment of the existence of pathogenic human retroviruses laid the technical and intellectual foundation for the discovery of the cause of AIDS soon afterward. Without this advance, our ability to diagnose and treat HIV infection most likely would have been long delayed.
Membrane aerated biofilms (MABs) are subject to “counter diffusion” of oxygen and substrates. In a membrane aerated biofilm reactor, gases (e.g., oxygen) diffuse through the membrane into the MAB, and liquid substrates pass from the bulk liquid into the MAB. This behavior can result in a unique biofilm structure in terms of microbial composition, distribution, and community activity in the MAB. Previous studies have shown simultaneous aerobic oxidation, nitrification, and denitrification within a single MAB. Using molecular techniques, we investigated the growth of sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) in the oxygen-based MAB attached to a flat sheet membrane. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of the amplified 16S rRNA gene fragments and functional gene fragments specific for ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (amoA), denitrifying bacteria (nirK), and SRB (dsrB) demonstrated the coexistence of nitrifiers, denitrifiers, and SRB communities within a single MAB. The functional diversities of SRB and denitrifiers decreased with an increase in the oxygen concentration in the bulk water of the reactor.
Middle-East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was identified to cause severe respiratory infection in humans since 2012. The continuing MERS epidemic with a case-fatality of more than 30 % poses a major threat to public health worldwide. Currently, the pathogenesis of human MERS-CoV infection remains poorly understood. We reviewed experimental findings from human primary cells and ex vivo human lung tissues, as well as those from animal studies, so as to understand the pathogenesis and high case-fatality of MERS. Human respiratory epithelial cells are highly susceptible to MERS-CoV and can support productive viral replication. However, the induction of antiviral cytokines and proinflammatory cytokines/chemokines are substantially dampened in the infected epithelial cells, due to the antagonistic mechanisms evolved by the virus. MERS-CoV can readily infect and robustly replicate in human macrophages and dendritic cells, triggering the aberrant production of proinflammatory cytokines/chemokines. MERS-CoV can also effectively infect human primary T cells and induce massive apoptosis in these cells. Although data from clinical, in vitro and ex vivo studies suggested the potential for virus dissemination, extrapulmonary involvement in MERS patients has not been ascertained due to the lack of autopsy study. In MERS-CoV permissive animal models, although viral RNA can be detected from multiple organs of the affected animals, the brain of human DPP4-transgenic mouse was the only extrapulmonary organ from which the infectious virus can be recovered. More research findings on the pathogenesis of MERS and the tissue tropisms of MERS-CoV may help to improve the treatment and infection control of MERS.
DNA methylation is essential for mammalian development and physiology. Here we report that the developmentally regulated H19 lncRNA binds to and inhibits S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase (SAHH), the only mammalian enzyme capable of hydrolysing S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH). SAH is a potent feedback inhibitor of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM)-dependent methyltransferases that methylate diverse cellular components, including DNA, RNA, proteins, lipids and neurotransmitters. We show that H19 knockdown activates SAHH, leading to increased DNMT3B-mediated methylation of an lncRNA-encoding gene Nctc1 within the Igf2-H19-Nctc1 locus. Genome-wide methylation profiling reveals methylation changes at numerous gene loci consistent with SAHH modulation by H19. Our results uncover an unanticipated regulatory circuit involving broad epigenetic alterations by a single abundantly expressed lncRNA that may underlie gene methylation dynamics of development and diseases and suggest that this mode of regulation may extend to other cellular components.
Heterochromatic loci are often assembled into higher-order heterochromatin bodies in diverse eukaryotes. However, the formation and biological roles of heterochromatin bodies are poorly understood. In the ciliated protozoan Tetrahymena, de novo heterochromatin body formation is accompanied by programmed DNA elimination. Here, we show that the heterochromatin body component Jub1p promotes heterochromatin body formation and dephosphorylation of the Heterochromatin Protein 1-like protein Pdd1p. Through the mutagenesis of the phosphorylated residues of Pdd1p, we demonstrate that Pdd1p dephosphorylation promotes the electrostatic interaction between Pdd1p and RNA in vitro and heterochromatin body formation in vivo. We therefore propose that heterochromatin body is assembled by the Pdd1p-RNA interaction. Pdd1p dephosphorylation and Jub1p are required for heterochromatin body formation and DNA elimination but not for local heterochromatin assembly, indicating that heterochromatin body plays an essential role in DNA elimination.
Global DNA hypomethylation and DNA hypermethylation of promoter regions are frequently detected in human cancers. Although many studies have suggested a contribution to carcinogenesis, it is still unclear whether the aberrant DNA hypomethylation observed in tumors is a consequence or a cause of cancer. Here, we show that the enforced expression of Stella (also known as PGC7 and Dppa3) induced not only global DNA demethylation but also transformation of NIH3T3 cells. Furthermore, overexpression of Stella enhanced the metastatic ability of B16 melanoma cells, presumably through the induction of metastasis-related genes. These results provide new insights into the function of global DNA hypomethylation in carcinogenesis.
Mutations in mitochondrial DNA have been found to be associated with hypertension. Of these, mitochondrial transfer RNA (mt-tRNA) is a hot spot for these pathogenic mutations. It is generally believed that these mutations may result in the failure of mt-tRNA metabolism, thereby worsening mitochondrial dysfunction and resulting in hypertension. mt-tRNA is known for its high frequency of polymorphisms and mutations, and the number of reports regarding mt-tRNA mutations and hypertension is increasing significantly. To better understand the molecular basis of maternally inherited hypertension, we reassessed the link between four mt-tRNA mutations (G15927A in tRNAThr, C7492T in tRNASer(UCN), A4386G in tRNAGln, and C14686T in tRNAGlu) and hypertension. We first used the phylogenetic approach to investigate the deleterious roles of these mutations, then we used RNA Fold Web Server to predict the minimum free energy of these mt-tRNAs with and without mutations. Using the pathogenicity scoring system, we found that the G15927A and C7492T mutations are classified as pathogenic while all other studied mutations are neutral polymorphisms. Our study provides valuable information for the detection of pathogenic mt-tRNA mutations in hypertension.
Genes include occasionally isolated codons with a fourth (and fifth) silent nucleotide(s). Assuming tetracodons, translated hypothetical peptides align with regular GenBank proteins; predicted tetracodons coevolve with predicted tRNAs with expanded anticodons in each mammal, Drosophila and Lepidosauria mitogenomes, GC contents and with lepidosaurian body temperatures, suggesting that expanded codons are an adaptation of translation to high temperature. Hypothetically, continuous stretches of tetra- and pentacodons code for peptides. Both systematic nucleotide deletions during transcription, and translation by tRNAs with expanded anticodons could produce these peptides. Reanalyses of human nanoLc mass spectrometry peptidome data detect numerous tetra- and pentapeptides translated from the human mitogenome. These map preferentially on (BLAST-detected) human RNAs matching the human mitogenome, assuming systematic mono- and dinucleotide deletions after each third nucleotide (delRNAs). Translation by expanded anticodons is incompatible with silent nucleotides in the midst rather than at codon 3' extremity. More than 1/3 of detected tetra- and pentapeptides assume silent positions at codon extremity, suggesting that both mechanisms, regular translation of delRNAs and translation of regular RNAs by expanded anticodons, produce this peptide subgroup. Results show that systematically deleting polymerization occurs, and confirm serial translation of expanded codons. Non-canonical transcriptions and translations considerably expand the coding potential of DNA and RNA sequences.
Background: The acquisition of multidrug resistance by Plasmodium falciparum underscores the need to understand the underlying molecular mechanisms so as to counter their impact on malaria control. For the many antimalarials whose mode of action relates to inhibition of heme detoxification inside infected erythrocytes, the digestive vacuole transporters PfCRT and PfMDR1 constitute primary resistance determinants. Results: Using gene expression microarrays over the course of the parasite intra-erythrocytic developmental cycle, we compared the transcriptomic profiles between P. falciparum strains displaying mutant or wild-type pfcrt or varying in pfcrt or pfmdr1 expression levels. To account for differences in the time of sampling, we developed a computational method termed Hypergeometric Analysis of Time Series, which combines Fast Fourier Transform with a modified Gene Set Enrichment Analysis. Our analysis revealed coordinated changes in genes involved in protein catabolism, translation initiation and DNA/RNA metabolism. We also observed differential expression of genes with a role in transport or coding for components of the digestive vacuole. Interestingly, a global comparison of all profiled transcriptomes uncovered a tight correlation between the transcript levels of pfcrt and pfmdr1, extending to dozens of other genes, suggesting an intricate regulatory balance in order to maintain optimal physiological processes. Conclusions: This study provides insight into the mechanisms by which P. falciparum adjusts to the acquisition of mutations or gene amplification in key transporter loci that mediate drug resistance. Our results implicate several biological pathways that may be differentially regulated to compensate for impaired transporter function and alterations in parasite vacuole physiology.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) contain microRNAs (miRNAs). However, the exact molecular mechanisms of the recruitment of miRNAs in EVs are not well characterized. Based on proteomic analysis, we identified that silencing of Annexin A2 (ANXA2) significantly decreased the amount of miRNAs in EVs. In addition, microarray analysis revealed that ANXA2 regulated the loading of miRNAs into EVs in a sequence independent manner. Lastly, immunoprecipitation analysis confirmed that ANXA2 could bind miRNAs in EVs in the presence of Ca2+. These observations demonstrate that ANXA2 plays an important role in the packaging process of miRNAs into EVs. ANXA2 silencing is highly efficient for decreasing EV miRNA abundance. Overexpression of ANXA2 increases the total amount of miRNAs in EVs. ANXA2 regulates EV miRNA loading in a sequence independent manner. ANXA2 binds miRNAs in EVs in the presence of Ca2+. This is the first evidence describing the loading process of miRNAs into EVs.
Background: Although Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) is the dominant gastrointestinal pathogen, the genetic and molecular mechanisms underlying H.pylori-related diseases have not been fully elucidated. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been identified in eukaryotic cells, many of which play important roles in regulating biological processes and pathogenesis. However, the expression changes of lncRNAs in human infected by H.pylori have been rarely reported. This study aimed to identify the dysregulated lncRNAs in human gastric epithelial cells and tissues infected with H.pylori. Methods: The aberrant expression profiles of lncRNAs and mRNAs in GES-1 cells with or without H.pylori infection were explored by microarray analysis. LncRNA-mRNA co-expression network was constructed based on Pearson correlation analysis. Gene Ontology (GO) and KEGG Pathway analyses of aberrantly expressed mRNAs were performed to identify the related biological functions and pathologic pathways. The expression changes of target lncRNAs were validated by qRT-PCR to confirm the microarray data in both cells and clinical specimens. Results: Three hundred three lncRNAs and 565 mRNAs were identified as aberrantly expressed transcripts (≥2 or ≤0.5-fold change, P < 0.05) in cells with H.pylori infection compared to controls. LncRNA-mRNA co-expression network showed the core lncRNAs/mRNAs which might play important roles in H.pylori-related pathogenesis. GO and KEGG analyses have indicated that the functions of aberrantly expressed mRNAs in H.pylori infection were related closely with inflammation and carcinogenesis. QRT-PCR data confirmed the expression pattern of 8 (n345630, XLOC-004787, n378726, LINC00473, XLOC-005517, LINC00152, XLOC-13370, and n408024) lncRNAs in infected cells. Additionally, four down-regulated (n345630, XLOC-004787, n378726, and LINC00473) lncRNAs were verified in H.pylori-positive gastric samples. Conclusion: Our study provided a preliminary exploration of lncRNAs expression profiles in H.pylori-infected cells by microarray. These dysregulated lncRNAs might contribute to the pathological processes during H.pylori infection.
Single-nucleotide polymorphisms within intron 1 of the FTO (fat mass and obesity-associated) gene are associated with enhanced FTO expression, increased body weight, obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The N6-methyladenosine (m6A) demethylase FTO plays a pivotal regulatory role for postnatal growth and energy expenditure. The purpose of this review is to provide translational evidence that links milk signaling with FTO-activated transcription of the milk recipient. FTO-dependent demethylation of m6A regulates mRNA splicing required for adipogenesis, increases the stability of mRNAs, and affects microRNA (miRNA) expression and miRNA biosynthesis. FTO senses branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) and activates the nutrient sensitive kinase mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), which plays a key role in translation. Milk provides abundant BCAAs and glutamine, critical components increasing FTO expression. CpG hypomethylation in the first intron of FTO has recently been associated with T2DM. CpG methylation is generally associated with gene silencing. In contrast, CpG demethylation generally increases transcription. DNA de novo methylation of CpG sites is facilitated by DNA methyltransferases (DNMT) 3A and 3B, whereas DNA maintenance methylation is controlled by DNMT1. MiRNA-29s target all DNMTs and thus reduce DNA CpG methylation. Cows milk provides substantial amounts of exosomal miRNA-29s that reach the systemic circulation and target mRNAs of the milk recipient. Via DNMT suppression, milk exosomal miRNA-29s may reduce the magnitude of FTO methylation, thereby epigenetically increasing FTO expression in the milk consumer. High lactation performance with increased milk yield has recently been associated with excessive miRNA-29 expression of dairy cow mammary epithelial cells (DCMECs). Notably, the galactopoietic hormone prolactin upregulates the transcription factor STAT3, which induces miRNA-29 expression. In a retrovirus-like manner milk exosomes may transfer DCMEC-derived miRNA-29s and bovine FTO mRNA to the milk consumer amplifying FTO expression. There is compelling evidence that obesity, T2DM, prostate and breast cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases are all associated with increased FTO expression. Maximization of lactation performance by veterinary medicine with enhanced miRNA-29s and FTO expression associated with increased exosomal miRNA-29 and FTO mRNA transfer to the milk consumer may represent key epigenetic mechanisms promoting FTO/mTORC1-mediated diseases of civilization.
Background: The feline leukemia virus (FeLV) is a gamma-retrovirus of domestic cats that was discovered half a century ago. Cats that are infected with FeLV may develop a progressive infection resulting in persistent viremia, immunodeficiency, tumors, anemia and death. A significant number of cats mount a protective immune response that suppresses viremia; these cats develop a regressive infection characterized by the absence of viral replication and the presence of low levels of proviral DNA. The biological importance of these latter provirus carriers is largely unknown. Results: Here, we demonstrate that ten cats that received a transfusion of blood from aviremic provirus carriers developed active FeLV infections, some with a progressive outcome and the development of fatal FeLV-associated disease. The infection outcome, disease spectrum and evolution into FeLV-C in one cat mirrored those of natural infection. Two cats developed persistent antigenemia; six cats were transiently antigenemic. Reactivation of infection occurred in some cats. One recipient developed non-regenerative anemia associated with FeLV-C, and four others developed a T-cell lymphoma, one with secondary lymphoblastic leukemia. Five of the ten recipient cats received provirus-positive aviremic blood, whereas the other five received provirus- and viral RNA-positive but aviremic blood. Notably, the cats that received blood containing only proviral DNA exhibited a later onset but graver outcome of FeLV infection than the cats that were transfused with blood containing proviral DNA and viral RNA. Leukocyte counts and cytokine analyses indicated that the immune system of the latter cats reacted quicker and more efficiently. Conclusions: Our results underline the biological and epidemiological relevance of FeLV provirus carriers and the risk of inadvertent FeLV transmission via blood transfusion and demonstrate the replication capacity of proviral DNA if uncontrolled by the immune system. Our results have implications not only for veterinary medicine, such as the requirement for testing blood donors and blood products for FeLV provirus by sensitive polymerase chain reaction, but are also of general interest by revealing the importance of latent retroviral DNA in infected hosts. When aiming to eliminate a retroviral infection from a population, provirus carriers must be considered.
Background: The most common ladybird beetle, Coccinella septempunctata L., is an excellent predator of crop pests such as aphids and white flies, and it shows a wide range of adaptability, a large appetite and a high reproductive ability. Diapause research plays an important role in the artificial propagation and shelf-life extension of insect products. Although this lady beetle's regulatory, physiological and biochemical characteristics in the diapause period are well understood, the molecular mechanism of diapause remains unknown. Therefore, we collected female adults in three different states, i.e., non-diapause, diapause and diapause termination, for transcriptome sequencing. Results: After transcriptome sequencing using the Illumina HiSeq 2500 platform with pretreatment, a total of 417.6 million clean reads from nine samples were filtered using the program FASTX (version 0.0). Additionally, 106,262 contigs were assembled into 82,820 unigenes with an average length of 921 bp and an N50 of 1,241 bp. All of the unigenes were annotated through BLASTX alignment against the Nr or UniProt database, and 37,872 unigenes were matched. We performed further analysis of these unigenes using the Clusters of Orthologous Groups of proteins (COG), Gene Ontology (GO), and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases. Through pairwise comparisons of the non-diapause (ND), diapause (D), and diapause-terminated (DT) groups, 3,501 and 1,427 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between D and ND and between DT and D, respectively. Moreover, 443 of the DEGs were specifically expressed during the diapause period (i.e., DEGs that were expressed at the highest or lowest levels during diapause compared with the other stages). GO function and KEGG pathway enrichment were performed on all DEGs and showed that RNA-directed DNA polymerase activity and fatty acid metabolism were significantly affected. Furthermore, eight specific expressed genes were selected for validation using qRT-PCR. Among these eight genes, seven genes were up-regulated, and one gene was down-regulated; the change trends of the eight genes were the same between the qRT-PCR and RNA-seq analysis results. Conclusions: In this study, a new method for collecting and identifying diapause insects was described. We generated a vast quantity of transcriptome data from C. septempunctata L., providing a resource for gene function research. The diapause-associated genes that we identified establish a foundation for future studies on the molecular mechanisms of diapause.
The growth arrest-specific 6 gene (GAS6) is a member of the family of plasma vitamin K-dependent proteins, which are able to bind to phospholipids using an N-terminal gamma-carboxyglutamic acid domain. A recent report has demonstrated that the GAS6 gene can promote fat deposition and is associated with an increased number of fat cells in mice. In order to investigate whether GAS6 expression is associated with meat quality in pigs, a 2382-bp cDNA sequence of the porcine GAS6 gene (GenBank accession No. KC526197) was first obtained using rapid amplification of cDNA ends from porcine longissimus dorsi tissue. One A/G single nucleotide polymorphism anchored in exon 12 was genotyped using the marker PCR-RFLP-BglI, and the G allele was dominant in the pig breeds tested. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction showed that the porcine GAS6 gene was expressed in all tissues examined in weaned male Shaziling (SZL) and Yorkshire (YS) weanling piglets, and mRNA expression of GAS6 in the longissimus dorsi tissue of SZL piglets was significantly higher than that in YS piglets (P < 0.05). The GAS6 protein was likely to be a membrane protein and was detected in longissimus dorsi tissue from SZL and YS piglets using immunohistochemistry, with an abundant protein expression index (P > 0.05). The results imply that the GAS6 gene can be considered a potential candidate for meat quality trait selection and fat deposition in pigs.
Background: Mitochondria perform a principal role in eukaryotic cells. Mutations in mtDNA can cause mitochondrial dysfunction and are frequently associated with various abnormalities during plant development. Extraction of plant mitochondria and mtDNA is the basic requirement for the characterization of mtDNA mutations and other molecular studies. However, currently available methods for mitochondria isolation are either tissue specific or species specific. Extracted mtDNA may contain substantial chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) and nuclear DNA (nDNA) and its end use efficiency can be reduced. Clearly, an effective mitochondria isolation method is warranted with wider applicability and with minimum contamination from cpDNA and nDNA. Results: Here we reported an improved method for isolating mitochondria from dry wheat seeds and its extension to dead seeds, viable seeds, etiolated leaf tissue and several other plant species: oat, Arabidopsis, flax, and yellow mustard. The isolated mitochondria were successfully used to extract mtDNA with QIAamp DNA mini kit (Qiagen). The extracted mtDNA from the assayed samples of these species was intact in large quantity and showed little contamination from nDNA, cpDNA, RNA, and proteins. The mtDNA extracted from dead wheat seeds was also substantial, but more degraded and less intact when compared to those from viable seeds and other tissues. Conclusion: The improved method was successfully applied to isolate mitochondria and extract mtDNA from several different tissues and plant species. The major advance in the improvement lies in its wider application with the same mitochondria extraction medium to different tissues and species. The improvement is significant, as it helps to widen the scope of future plant mitochondria research.
Background: Highly efficient genome editing can be achieved through targeting an endonuclease to specific locus of interest. Engineered zinc-finger nuclease (ZFN) and CRISPR-associated protein-9 nuclease (Cas9) offer such an elegant approach for genome editing in vertebrate cells. In this study, we have utilized ZFN and Cas9-catalyzed double strand break followed by homologous recombination-mediated incorporation of premature stop codon and selection marker to target human cell division cycle 14A (hCDC14A) and cell division cycle 14B (hCDC14B) genes. Results: Targeting of the hCDC14A and hCDC14B loci in telomerase immortalized human retinal pigment epithelium (hTERT-RPE1) and human colon cancer (HCT116) cells were confirmed by Southern blot hybridization. Nevertheless, DNA sequence analysis of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) products confirmed that in all the single/double allele ablations, the targeted exon was spliced out. The phenomenon of exon skipping was independent of the genome editing approaches exploited, Cas9 or ZFN. Because the exons had a nucleotide number that could be divided by 3, the reading frame of the exon deletion was maintained. This indicates an exon-skipping event possibly due to the insertion of large DNA fragment (1.7 to 2.5 Kb) within the targeted exons. As a proof-of-principle, we have used gene disruption followed by non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) approach. Small alterations in the exon (one to fifteen bases) were transcribed to mRNA without exon skipping. Furthermore, loxP site-mediated removal of selection markers left a 45 bp scar within the targeted exon that can be traced in mRNA without exon skipping. Conclusion: From this study, we conclude that insertion of a large DNA fragment into an exon by genome editing can lead to its skipping from the final transcript. Hence, more cautious approach needs to be taken while designing target sites in such that the possible skipping of targeted exon causes a frame-shift mediated incorporation of pre-mature stop codon. On the other hand, exon skipping may be a useful strategy for the introduction of protein deletions.
Little is known about the role of microRNA during influenza A virus (IAV) infection. We observed that NIK 3′UTR luciferase activity was elevated during IAV infection. Further studies demonstrated that miR-302c reduced NIK expression, resulting in the reduction of IFNβ mRNA expression. We found that miR-302c prevented the translocation of NF-κB from the cytosol to the nucleus. Furthermore, IAV infection downregulated miR-302c expression, leading to the activation of IFNβ expression and the inhibition of viral replication. Compared to miR-302c, miR-520e cannot promote viral replication and production, although the two microRNAs target the same site of the NIK 3′UTR. Collectively, our work defines a novel signaling pathway implicated in the control of IFNβ mRNA expression during IAV infection.
HIV and human papillomavirus (HPV) coinfection is increasing, especially in the anal canal (AC) and cervico-vaginal regions.We identified anal epithelium abnormalities related to high-risk HPV (HR-HPV) lesions in the lower genital tracts (LGTs) of HIV-positive women, described the HPV genotypes identified, and assessed the expression of E6/E7 oncogenes in coinfected patients. Ninety-eight women were enrolled in groups combining HIV status and presence or absence of HPV in the LGT. Anal and cervical smears were collected for cytology and HR-HPV assays using Cobas® and/or PapilloCheck®. Samples with highly oncogenic HPV genotypes were confirmed by NucliSENS EasyQ®. Forty-two HIV-positive (25-52; mean age 39.5) and 56 HIV-negative (18-58; mean age 35.7) patients were included. E2 and C1 groups presented AC alterations (P = 0.002); altered images for high-resolution anoscopy were higher in E1 and C2 (P < 0.001). Of the 29 women with alterations, 41.38% were HIV-negative and 58.62% were HIV-positive (P < 0.001). HIV-positive patients accounted for 29% of the anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (P = 0.015). The Cobas® positive result frequency was higher in three AC groups than in the other groups. There was variation in the number of HPV types in the cervicovaginal samples among the study groups (P < 0.001). Anal cytology and anoscopy showed more altered findings in HIV-positive patients with HPV in the LGT. HR-HPV anal infections by various genotypes are common and are associated with cervical infections in HIV-positive patients. E6/E7 expression is apparently more common in the AC of HIV-positive women.
The Breast Cancer Metastasis Suppressor 1 (BRMS1) is a nucleo-cytoplasmic protein that suppresses cancer metastasis without affecting the growth of the primary tumor. Previous work has shown that it decreases the expression of protein mediators involved in chemoresistance. This study measured the biomechanical and biochemical changes in BRMS1 expression and the responses of BRMS1 to drug treatments on cancer cells in vitro. The results show that BRMS1 expression affects biomechanical properties by decreasing the Young's modulus and adhesion force of breast cancer cells after doxorubicin (DOX) exposure. Raman spectral bands corresponding to DNA/RNA, lipids and proteins were similar for all cells after DOX treatment. The expression of cytokines were similar for cancer cells after DOX exposure, although BRMS1 expression had different effects on the secretion of cytokines for breast cancer cells. The absence of significant changes on apoptosis, reactive oxygen species (ROS) expression and cell viability after BRMS1 expression shows that BRMS1 has little effect on cellular chemoresistance. Analyzing cancer protein expression is critical in evaluating therapeutics. Our study may provide evidence of the benefit of metastatic suppressor expression before chemotherapy.
Background: Luteimonas abyssi XH031T, which was previously isolated from subseafloor environment of the South Pacific Gyre (SPG), was an aerobic, gram-negative bacterium, and was identified to be a novel species of the genus Luteimonas in the family of Xanthomonadaceae. The nutrients utilization and metabolic mechanisms of XH031T indicate its plasticity. In view of the above characteristics, its genome was sequenced, and an in-depth analysis of the XH031T genome was performed to elucidate its adaption to extreme ecological environment. Results: Various macromolecules including polysaccharide, protein, lipid and DNA could be degraded at low temperature by XH031T under laboratory conditions, and its degradation abilities to starch, gelatin and casein were considerably strong. Genome sequence analysis indicated that XH031T possesses extensive enzyme-encoding genes compared with four other Luteimonas strains. In addition, intricate systems (such as two-component regulatory systems, secretion systems, etc.), which are often used by bacteria to modulate the interactions of bacteria with their environments, were predicted in the genome of XH031T. Genes encoding a choline-glycine betaine transporter and 99 extracellular peptidases featured with halophilicity were predicted in the genome, which might help the bacterium to adapt to the salty marine environment. Moreover, there were many gene clusters in the genome encoding ATP-binding cassette superfamily transporters, major facilitator superfamily transporters and cytochrome P450s that might function in the process of various substrate transportation and metabolisms. Furthermore, drug resistance genes harbored in the genome might signify that XH031T has evolved hereditary adaptation to toxic environment. Finally, the annotation of metabolic pathways of the elements (such as carbon, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphor and iron) in the genome elucidated the degradation of organic matter in the deep sediment of the SPG. Conclusions: The genome analysis showed that XH031T had genetic advantages to adapt to subseafloor environment. The material metabolism manifests that the strain may play an important ecological role in the biogeochemical cycle of the SPG, and various cold-adapted extracelluar enzymes produced by the strain may have significant value in application.
Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.AIM: To investigate the potential roles of enhancer of zeste homolog2 (EZH2), Bmi-1 and miR-203 in cell proliferation and invasion in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell line Hep3B. METHODS: A total of 73 patients who underwent surgical resection at Fuzong Clinical Medical College of Fujian Medical University were enrolled in this study. Hep3B cells were cultivated in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum at 37 °C. Vectors that containing cDNA of the EZH2 gene or miR-203 targeted shRNA plasmid were constructed, and then transfected into Hep3B cells. The mRNA expression of miR-203, EZH2, and Bmi-1 was analyzed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis, and the protein levels of EZH2 and Bmi-1 were detected by Western blot analysis. Effect of EZH2 or miR-203 on cell proliferation was observed by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium assay, and cell apoptosis was assessed using flow cytometry. Besides, effect of EZH2 or miR-203 on tumor cell invasion was detected using Transwell assay. RESULTS: The mRNA levels of EZH2 and Bmi-1 in HCC tissues and in Hep3B cells were significantly higher compared with those in normal samples (P < 0.01), while miR-203 level was significantly lower in HCC tissues (P < 0.01). Hep3B cells transfected with EZH2- shRNA or miR-203-shRNA showed lower expression levels of EZH2 and Bmi-1 (P < 0.05). Compared with controls, Hep3B cells transfected with EZH2-shRNA had relative slow cell proliferation, indicating that low expression of EZH2 and Bmi-1 and overexpression of miR-203 could inhibit Hep3B cell proliferation (P < 0.05). The average apoptosis rate of Hep3B cells transfected with EZH2-shRNA vector was about 18.631%, while that of Hep3B cells transfected with shRNA vector was about 5.33%, suggesting that EZH2 was down-regulated by transfecting with EZH2-shRNA, and the down-regulated EZH2 contributed to the cell apoptosis. Low expression of EZH2 and Bmi-1 and overexpression of miR-203 could reduce Hep3B cell invasion (P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that EZH2 and Bmi-1 are up-regulated while miR-203 is downregulated in Hep3B cells. MiR-203 may contribute to the metastasis and enhance apoptosis of HCC cells by regulating EZH2 and Bmi-1. Our study may provide a theoretical basis for metastasis of HCC and targeted therapy of HCC.
Background: Upstream open reading frames (uORFs) and upstream AUGs (uAUGs) can regulate the translation of downstream ORFs. The AT rich genome of Plasmodium falciparum, due to the higher AT content of start and stop codons, has the potential to give rise to a large number of uORFs and uAUGs that may affect expression of their flanking ORFs. Methods: A bioinformatics approach was used to detect uATGs associated with different genes in the parasite. To study the effect of some of these uAUGs on the expression of the downstream ORF, promoters and 5′ leaders containing uAUGs and uORFs were cloned upstream of a luciferase reporter gene. Luciferase assays were carried out in transient transfection experiments to assess the effects of uAUGs and mutations on reporter expression. Results: The average number of uATGs and uORFs seen in P. falciparum coding sequences (CDS) is expectedly high compared to other less biased genomes. Certain genes, including the var gene family contain the maximum number of uATGs and uORFs in the parasite. They possess ~5 times more uORFs and ~4.5 times more uAUGs within 100 bases upstream of the start codons than other CDS of the parasite. A 60 bp upstream region containing three ORFs and five ATGs from var gene PF3D7-0400100 and a gene of unknown function (PF3D7-0517100) when cloned upstream of the luciferase start codon, driven by the hsp86 promoter, resulted in loss of luciferase activity. This was restored when all the ATGs present in the -60 bp were mutated to TTGs. Point mutations in the ATGs showed that even one AUG was sufficient to repress the luciferase gene. Conclusions: Overall, this work indicates that the P. falciparum genome has a large number of uATGs and uORFs that can repress the expression of flanking ORFs. The role of AUGs in translation initiation suggests that this repression is mediated by preventing the translation initiation complex from reaching the main AUG of the downstream ORF. How the P. falciparum ribosome is able to bypass these uAUGs and uORFs for highly expressed genes remains a question for future research.
Cyanobacteria show promise as photosynthetic microbial factories capable of harnessing sunlight and CO2 to produce valuable end products, but few genetic control tools have been characterized and utilized in these organisms. To develop a suite of control elements capable of gene control at a variety of expression strengths, a library of 10 promoter-constructs were developed and built via rational design techniques by adding individual nucleotides in a step-wise manner within the -10 and -35 cis-acting regions of the tac promoter. This suite produced a dynamic range of expression strength, exhibiting a 78 fold change between the lowest expressing promoter, Psca8- and the highest expressing promoter, Psca3-2 when tested within Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. Additionally, this study details the construction of a chemically inducible construct for use in Synechocystis that is based on the tac repressor system most commonly used in Escherichia coli. This research demonstrates the construction of a highly expressed inducible promoter that is also capable of high levels of gene repression. Upon chemical induction with IPTG, this same mutant strain was capable of exhibiting an average 24X increase in GFP expression over that of the repressed state.
DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) and their repair can cause extensive epigenetic changes. As a result, DSBs have been proposed to promote transcriptional and, ultimately, physiological dysfunction via both cell-intrinsic and cell-non-autonomous pathways. Studying the consequences of DSBs in higher organisms has, however, been hindered by a scarcity of tools for controlled DSB induction. Here, we describe a mouse model that allows for both tissue-specific and temporally controlled DSB formation at ∼140 defined genomic loci. Using this model, we show that DSBs promote a DNA damage signaling-dependent decrease in gene expression in primary cells specifically at break-bearing genes, which is reversed upon DSB repair. Importantly, we demonstrate that restoration of gene expression can occur independently of cell cycle progression, underlining its relevance for normal tissue maintenance. Consistent with this, we observe no evidence for persistent transcriptional repression in response to a multi-day course of continuous DSB formation and repair in mouse lymphocytes in vivo. Together, our findings reveal an unexpected capacity of primary cells to maintain transcriptome integrity in response to DSBs, pointing to a limited role for DNA damage as a mediator of cell-autonomous epigenetic dysfunction.
Little is known about responses of intestinal L-cells to chemical or cytokine-mediated attack and how these compare with pancreatic β- or α-cells. Administration of streptozotocin to mice induced severe diabetes, islet lymphocytic infiltration, increased α-cell proliferation and decreased numbers of β- and L-cells. In vitro, streptozotocin and cytokines reduced cell viability with higher lethal dose 50 values for α-TC1 cells. mRNA expression of Glut2 was lower and Cat was greater in GLUTag and α-TC1 cells compared with MIN6 cells. Cytotoxins affected the transcription of genes involved in secretion in GLUTag and MIN6 cells. They are also involved in upregulation of antioxidant defence enzymes, transcription of NfkB and Nos2, and production of nitrite in all cell types. Cytotoxin-induced DNA damage and apoptosis were apparent in all cells, but α-TC1 cells were less severely affected. Thus, responses of GLP1-secreting L-cells to cytotoxicity resemble b-cells, whereas a-cells are resistant due to differences in the expression of genes involved in cytotoxicity or antioxidant defence.
The Nef protein is an accessory gene product encoded by human immunodeficiency virus types 1 and 2 (HIV-1/-2) and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) that boosts virus replication in the infected host and accelerates disease progression. Unlike the HIV-1 accessory proteins Vif, Vpr and Vpu, Nef was, until recently, not known to antagonize the antiviral activity of a host cell restriction factor. Two recent reports now describe the host cell proteins serine incorporator 3 and 5 (SERINC3 and SERINC5) as potent inhibitors of HIV-1 particle infectivity and demonstrate that Nef counteracts these effects. These findings establish SERINC3/5 as restrictions to HIV replication in human cells and define a novel activity for the HIV pathogenesis factor Nef.
OBJECTIVE: To verify whether FN1 and ZNF438 are the androgen receptor(AR) target genes in LNCaP-AI cells and investigate the effects of AR exerts on FN1 and ZNF438 gene expression. METHODS: ChIP-PCR and agarose gel electrophoresis were performed to verify the fact that AR acted on FN1 and ZNF438 gene. Subsequently, LNCaP-AI cells were treated with dihydrotestosterone(DHT)and lentivirus transfection to down-regulate AR expression. The expression of FN1 and ZNF438 gene in mRNA and protein levels were analyzed by RT-qPCR and Western blot. RESULTS: FN1 and ZNF438 gene enrichment of AR-ChIP group were 7.274±0.290 and 6.843±0.078, significantly higher than the IgG-ChIP group of 1.004±0.113 and 1.000±0.014 (t(FN1)=34.91, t(ZNF438)=128.377, P<0.05). Differences were statistical significance. After DHT stimulation, the expression of FN1 and ZNF438 gene in mRNA and protein levels were 0.434±0.050 and 0.069±0.042, significantly lower than the control group of 1.000±0.016 and 1.025±0.277 (t(FN1)=18.532, t(ZNF438)=5.905, P<0.05). Differences were statistical significance. Moreover, after AR down-regulation, the expression of FN1 and ZNF438 gene in mRNA and protein levels were 17.579±4.415 and 1.895±0.424, significantly higher than the control group of 1.028±0.445 and 1.041±0.190 (t(FN1)=6.461, t(ZNF438)=3.184, P<0.05). Differences were statistical significance. CONCLUSIONS: FN1 and ZNF438 gene are AR negatively regulated target genes in LNCaP-AI cells. The study might provide a new sight to further explore the mechanism of LNCaP-AI cells grow in androgen-depleted conditions.
Activation-induced deoxycytidine deaminase (AID) generates antibody diversity in B cells by initiating somatic hypermutation (SHM) and class-switch recombination (CSR) during transcription of immunoglobulin variable (IgV) and switch region (IgS) DNA. Using single-molecule FRET, we show that AID binds to transcribed dsDNA and translocates unidirectionally in concert with RNA polymerase (RNAP) on moving transcription bubbles, while increasing the fraction of stalled bubbles. AID scans randomly when constrained in an 8 nt model bubble. When unconstrained on single-stranded (ss) DNA, AID moves in random bidirectional short slides/hops over the entire molecule while remaining bound for ∼5 min. Our analysis distinguishes dynamic scanning from static ssDNA creasing. That AID alone can track along with RNAP during transcription and scan within stalled transcription bubbles suggests a mechanism by which AID can initiate SHM and CSR when properly regulated, yet when unregulated can access non-Ig genes and cause cancer.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Abstract Plastid genes are transcribed by two types of RNA polymerase in angiosperms: the bacterial type plastid-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP) and one (RPOTp in monocots) or two (RPOTp and RPOTmp in dicots) nuclear-encoded RNA polymerase(s) (NEP). PEP is a bacterial-type multisubunit enzyme composed of core subunits (coded for by the plastid rpoA, rpoB, rpoC1 and rpoC2 genes) and additional protein factors (sigma factors and polymerase associated protein, PAPs) encoded in the nuclear genome. Sigma factors are required by PEP for promoter recognition. Six different sigma factors are NEP subunit has been identified, which bears the catalytic activity. NEP and PEP use different promoters. Many plastid genes have both PEP and NEP promoters. PEP dominates in the transcription of photosynthesis genes. Intriguingly, rpoB belongs to the few genes transcribed exclusively by NEP. Both NEP and PEP are active in non-green plastids and in chloroplasts at all stages of development. The transcriptional activity of NEP and PEP is affected by endogenous and exogenous factors. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Chloroplast Biogenesis.
Accurate cancer diagnosis often requires extraction and purification of genetic materials from cells, and sophisticated instrumentations that follow. Otherwise in order to directly treat the diagnostic materials to cells, multiple steps to optimize dose concentration and treatment time are necessary due to diversity in cellular behaviors. These processes may offer high precision but hinder fast analysis of cancer, especially in clinical situations that need rapid detection and characterization of cancer. Here we present a novel fluorescent tile DNA nanostructure delivered to cancer cytosol by employing nanoparticle technology. Its structural anisotropicity offers easy manipulation for multifunctionalities, enabling the novel DNA nanostructure to detect intracellular cancer RNA markers with high specificity within 30 minutes post treatment, while the nanoparticle property bypasses the requirement of treatment optimization, effectively reducing the complexity of applying the system for cancer diagnosis. Altogether, the system offers a precise and rapid detection of cancer, suggesting the future use in the clinical fields.
Gene silencing via RNA interference inadvertently represses hundreds of off-target transcripts. Because small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) can function as microRNAs, avoiding miRNA-like off-target repression is a major challenge. Functional miRNA-target interactions are known to pre-require transitional nucleation, base pairs from position 2 to the pivot (position 6). Here, by substituting nucleotide in pivot with abasic spacers, which prevent base pairing and alleviate steric hindrance, we eliminate miRNA-like off-target repression while preserving on-target activity at ∼80-100%. Specifically, miR-124 containing dSpacer pivot substitution (6pi) loses seed-mediated transcriptome-wide target interactions, repression activity and biological function, whereas other conventional modifications are ineffective. Application of 6pi allows PCSK9 siRNA to efficiently lower plasma cholesterol concentration in vivo, and abolish potentially deleterious off-target phenotypes. The smallest spacer, C3, also shows the same improvement in target specificity. Abasic pivot substitution serves as a general means to harness the specificity of siRNA experiments and therapeutic applications.
Recently, a large number of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as important regulators of many biological processes in animals and plants. However, how lncRNAs function during plant DNA virus infection is largely unknown. We performed strand-specific paired-end RNA sequencing of tomato samples infected with Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) with three biological replicates. Overall, we predicted 1565 lncRNAs including long intergenic ncRNAs (lincRNAs) and natural antisense transcripts (lncNATs) and definitively identified lnRNAs that are involved in TYLCV infection by virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS). We also verified the functions of a set of lncRNAs that were differentially expressed between 0 and 7 days post inoculation (dpi). More importantly, we found that several lncRNAs acted as competing endogenous target mimics (eTMs) for tomato microRNAs involved in the TYLCV infection. These results provide new insight into lncRNAs involved in the response to TYLCV infection that are important components of the TYLCV network in tomatoes.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
NADPH cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR) is essential for cytochrome P450 catalysis, which is important in the detoxification and activation of xenobiotics. In this study, two transcripts of Bactrocera dorsalis CPR (BdCPR) were cloned, and the deduced amino-acid sequence had an N-terminus membrane anchor for BdCPR-X1 and three conserved binding domains (FMN, FAD, and NADP), as well as an FAD binding motif and catalytic residues for both BdCPR-X1 and BdCPR-X2. BdCPR-X1 was detected to have the high expression levels in adults and in Malpighian tubules, fat bodies, and midguts of adults, but BdCPR-X2 expressed lowly in B. dorsalis. The levels of BdCPRs were similar in malathion-resistant strain compared to susceptible strain. However, injecting adults with double-stranded RNA against BdCPR significantly reduced the transcript levels of the mRNA, and knockdown of BdCPR increased adult susceptibility to malathion. Expressing complete BdCPR-X1 cDNA in Sf9 cells resulted in high activity determined by cytochrome c reduction and these cells had higher viability after exposure to malathion than control. The results suggest that BdCPR could affect the susceptibility of B. dorsalis to malathion and eukaryotic expression of BdCPR would lay a solid foundation for further investigation of P450 in B. dorsalis.
Background: Rickettsia species are obligate intracellular Gram-negative pathogenic bacteria and the etiologic agents of diseases such as Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF), Mediterranean spotted fever, epidemic typhus, and murine typhus. Genome sequencing revealed that R. prowazekii has ~25% non-coding DNA, the majority of which is thought to be either "junk DNA" or pseudogenes resulting from genomic reduction. These characteristics also define other Rickettsia genomes. Bacterial small RNAs, whose biogenesis is predominantly attributed to either the intergenic regions (trans-acting) or to the antisense strand of an open reading frame (cis-acting), are now appreciated to be among the most important post-transcriptional regulators of bacterial virulence and growth. We hypothesize that intergenic regions in rickettsial species encode for small, non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) involved in the regulation of its transcriptome, leading to altered virulence and adaptation depending on the host niche. Results: We employed a combination of bioinformatics and in vitro approaches to explore the presence of sRNAs in a number of species within Genus Rickettsia. Using the sRNA Identification Protocol using High-throughput Technology (SIPHT) web interface, we predicted over 1,700 small RNAs present in the intergenic regions of 16 different strains representing 13 rickettsial species. We further characterized novel sRNAs from typhus (R. prowazekii and R. typhi) and spotted fever (R. rickettsii and R. conorii) groups for their promoters and Rho-independent terminators using Bacterial Promoter Prediction Program (BPROM) and TransTermHP prediction algorithms, respectively. Strong σ70 promoters were predicted upstream of all novel small RNAs, indicating the potential for transcriptional activity. Next, we infected human microvascular endothelial cells (HMECs) with R. prowazekii for 3 h and 24 h and performed Next Generation Sequencing to experimentally validate the expression of 26 sRNA candidates predicted in R. prowazekii. Reverse transcriptase PCR was also used to further verify the expression of six putative novel sRNA candidates in R. prowazekii. Conclusions: Our results yield clear evidence for the expression of novel R. prowazekii sRNA candidates during infection of HMECs. This is the first description of novel small RNAs for a highly pathogenic species of Rickettsia, which should lead to new insights into rickettsial virulence and adaptation mechanisms.
Background: Spliceosomal introns are a common feature of eukaryotic genomes. To approach a comprehensive understanding of intron evolution on Earth, studies should look beyond repeatedly studied groups such as animals, plants, and fungi. The slime mold Dictyostelium belongs to a supergroup of eukaryotes not covered in previous studies. Results: We found 441 precise intron losses in Dictyostelium discoideum and 202 precise intron losses in Dictyostelium purpureum. Consistent with these observations, Dictyostelium discoideum was found to have significantly more copies of reverse transcriptase genes than Dictyostelium purpureum. We also found that the lost introns are significantly further from the 5′ end of genes than the conserved introns. Adjacent introns were prone to be lost simultaneously in Dictyostelium discoideum. In both Dictyostelium species, the exonic sequences flanking lost introns were found to have a significantly higher GC content than those flanking conserved introns. Together, these observations support a reverse-transcription model of intron loss in which intron losses were caused by gene conversion between genomic DNA and cDNA reverse transcribed from mature mRNA. We also identified two imprecise intron losses in Dictyostelium discoideum that may have resulted from genomic deletions. Ninety-eight putative intron gains were also observed. Consistent with previous studies of other lineages, the source sequences were found in only a small number of cases, with only two instances of intron gain identified in Dictyostelium discoideum. Conclusions: Although they diverged very early from animals and fungi, Dictyostelium species have similar mechanisms of intron loss.
Background: Pathogenic mutations in FBN1, encoding the glycoprotein, fibrillin-1, cause Marfan syndrome (MFS) and related connective tissue disorders. In the present study, qualitative and quantitative effects of 16 mutations, identified in FBN1 in MFS patients with systematically described phenotypes, were investigated in vitro. Methods: Qualitative analysis was performed with reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) and gel electrophoresis, and quantitative analysis to determine the FBN1 mRNA levels in fibroblasts from the 16 patients with MFS was performed with real-time PCR. Results: Qualitative analysis documented that the mutations c.4817-2delA and c.A4925G led to aberrant FBN1 mRNA splicing leading to in frame deletion of exon 39 and in exon 39, respectively. No difference in the mean FBN1 mRNA level was observed between the entire group of cases and controls, nor between the group of patients with missense mutations and controls. The mean expression levels associated with premature termination codon (PTC) and splice site mutations were significantly lower than the levels in patients with missense mutations. A high level of FBN1 mRNA in the patient with the missense mutation c.G2447T did not segregate with the mutation in three of his first degree relatives. No association was indicated between the FBN1 transcript level and specific phenotypic manifestations. Conclusions: Abnormal FBN1 transcripts were indicated in fibroblasts from patients with the splice site mutation c.4817-2delA and the missense mutation c.A4925G. While the mean FBN1 mRNA expression level in fibroblasts from patients with splice site and PTC mutations were lower than the mean level in patients with missense mutations and controls, inter-individual variability was high. The observation that high level of FBN1 mRNA in the patient with the missense mutation c.G2447T did not segregate with the mutation in the family suggests that variable expression of the normal FBN1 allele may contribute to explain the variability in FBN1 mRNA level.
Purpose: Previously, we reported that pioglitazone prevented insulin resistance and cell death in type 2 diabetic retina by reducing TNFa and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) levels. Numerous reports suggest prominent vasoprotective effects of insulin growth factor binding protein–3 (IGFBP-3) in diabetic retinopathy. We hypothesized that pioglitazone protects against retinal cell apoptosis by regulating IGFBP-3 levels, in addition to reducing TNFa. The current study explored potential IGFBP-3 regulatory pathways by pioglitazone in retinal endothelial cells cultured in high glucose. Methods: Primary human retinal endothelial cells (REC) were grown in normal (5 mM) and high glucose (25 mM) and treated with pioglitazone for 24 hours. Cell lysates were processed for Western blotting and ELISA analysis to evaluate IGFBP-3, TNFα, and cleaved caspase 3 protein levels. Results: Our results show that treatment with pioglitazone restored the high glucose–induced decrease in IGFBP-3 levels. This regulation was independent of TNFα actions, as reducing TNFα levels with siRNA did not prevent pioglitazone from increasing IGFBP-3 levels. Pioglitazone required protein kinase A (PKA) and DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA PK) activity to regulate IGFBP-3, as specific inhibitors for each protein prevented pioglitazonemediated normalization of IGFBP-3 in high glucose. Insulin growth factor binding protein–3 activity was increased and apoptosis decreased by pioglitazone, which was eliminated when serine site 156 of IGFBP-3 was mutated suggesting a key role of this phosphorylation site in pioglitazone actions. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that pioglitazone mediates regulation of IGFBP-3 via activation of PKA/DNA PK pathway in hyperglycemic retinal endothelial cells.
Background: Microbiota inhabiting midguts of mosquitoes play a key role in the host - parasite interaction and enhance vectorial capacity of viral diseases like dengue and chikungunya fevers. Mosquito midgut is considered to be an important site for host-pathogen interaction and pathogen survival is thought to be an outcome of this interaction. In the present study we examined the bacterial community in the midgut of Aedes mosquitoes in Arunanchal Pradesh, India, a subtropical zone where dengue fever is reported to be emerging. Method: Larvae and pupa of Aedes mosquitoes were collected from a biodiversity hotspot, Bhalukpong, Arunachal Pradesh, India. 16S rRNA gene sequences were used for identification of isolated bacterial population from each species of mosquitoes. We used various diversity indices to assess the diversity and richness of the bacterial isolates in both mosquito species. Result: On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis a total of 24 bacterial species from 13 genera were identified belonging to 10 families of four major phyla. Phylum Proteobacteria was dominant followed by Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria. The midgut bacteria belonging to the phylum Proteobacteria and Firmicutes were isolated from both Ae. albopictus and Ae. aegypti, whereas, bacteria belonging to phylum Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria were isolated only from Ae. albopictus and Ae. aegypti respectively. Enterobacter cloacae was the dominant bacterial species in both Ae. albopictus (33.65 %) and Ae. aegypti (56.45 %). Bacillus aryabhattai (22.78 %) was the second most common bacterial species in Ae. albopictus whereas, in Ae. aegypti the second most common bacterial species was Stenotrophomonas maltophilia (7.44 %). Conclusion: The family Enterobacteriaceae of phylum Proteobacteria was dominant in both species of Aedes mosquitoes. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to study midgut microbiota from a biodiversity hotspot in Northeastern India. Some bacterial genera Enterobacter and Acinetobacter isolated in this study are known to play important roles in parasite-vector interaction. Information on midgut microflora may lead towards the development of novel, safe, and effective strategies to manipulate the vectorial capacity of mosquitoes.
We examined patterns in soil microbial community composition across a successional gradient of drained lake basins in the Arctic Coastal Plain. Analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that methanogens closely related to Candidatus Methanoflorens stordalenmirensis were the dominant archaea, comprising >50% of the total archaea at most sites, with particularly high levels in the oldest basins and in the top 57 cm of soil (active and transition layers). Bacterial community composition was more diverse, with lineages from OP11, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Proteobacteria found in high relative abundance across all sites. Notably, microbial composition appeared to converge in the active layer, but transition and permafrost layer communities across the sites were significantly different to one another. Microbial biomass using fatty acid-based analysis indicated that the youngest basins had increased abundances of gram-positive bacteria and saprotrophic fungi at higher soil organic carbon levels, while the oldest basins displayed an increase in only the gram-positive bacteria. While this study showed differences in microbial populations across the sites relevant to basin age, the dominance of Candidatus M. stordalenmirensis across the chronosequence indicates the potential for changes in local carbon cycling, depending on how these methanogens and associated microbial communities respond to warming temperatures.
Motivation: In profiling the composition and structure of complex microbial communities via high throughput amplicon sequencing, a very low proportion of community members are typically sampled. As a result of this incomplete sampling, estimates of dissimilarity between communities are often inflated, an issue we term pseudo β-diversity. Results: We present a set of tools to identify and correct for the presence of pseudo β-diversity in contrasts between microbial communities. The variably weighted Odum dissimilarity (DwOdum) allows for down-weighting the influence of either abundant or rare taxa in calculating a measure of similarity between two communities. We show that down-weighting the influence of rare taxa can be used to minimize pseudo β-diversity arising from incomplete sampling. Down-weighting the influence of abundant taxa can increase the sensitivity of hypothesis testing. OTUshuff is an associated test for identifying the presence of pseudo β-diversity in pairwise community contrasts. Availability and implementation: A Perl script for calculating the DwOdum score from a taxon abundance table and performing pairwise contrasts with OTUshuff can be obtained at http://www.ars.usda.gov/services/software/software.htm?modecode=30-12-10-00.
Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. Motivation: Cancer progression and development are initiated by aberrations in various molecular networks through coordinated changes across multiple genes and pathways. It is important to understand how these networks change under different stress conditions and/or patient-specific groups to infer differential patterns of activation and inhibition. Existing methods are limited to correlation networks that are independently estimated from separate group-specific data and without due consideration of relationships that are conserved across multiple groups. Method: We propose a pathway-based differential network analysis in genomics (DINGO) model for estimating group-specific networks and making inference on the differential networks. DINGO jointly estimates the group-specific conditional dependencies by decomposing them into global and group-specific components. The delineation of these components allows for a more refined picture of the major driver and passenger events in the elucidation of cancer progression and development. Results: Simulation studies demonstrate that DINGO provides more accurate group-specific conditional dependencies than achieved by using separate estimation approaches. We apply DINGO to key signaling pathways in glioblastoma to build differential networks for long-term survivors and short-term survivors in The Cancer Genome Atlas. The hub genes found by mRNA expression, DNA copy number, methylation and microRNA expression reveal several important roles in glioblastoma progression. Availability and implementation: R Package at: odin.mdacc.tmc.edu/∼vbaladan.
Histone chaperones assist nucleosomal rearrangements to facilitate the passage of DNA and RNA polymerases through chromatin. The FACT (facilitates chromatin transcription) complex is a conserved histone chaperone involved in transcription, replication, and repair. The complex consists of two major subunits, Spt16 and SSRP1/Pob3 in mammals and yeast, which engage histones and DNA by multiple contacts. However, the precise mechanism of FACT function is largely unclear. Here, we used the genetically installed UV-activatable cross-linker amino acid p-benzoylphenylalanine (pBPA) to map the interaction network of FACT in living yeast. Unexpectedly, we found the acidic C-terminus of Pob3 forming cross-links to histone H2A and H2B most efficiently. This observation was independent of the performed cross-linking chemistry since similar histone cross-links were obtained using p-azidophenylalanine (pAzF). Further analyses identified a C-terminal nuclear localization sequence in Pob3. Its interaction with Importin-α interfered with H2A-H2B binding, which suggests a possible regulatory role in FACT recruitment to chromatin. Deletion of acidic residues from the Pob3 C-terminus creates a hydroxyurea-sensitive phenotype in budding yeast, suggesting a potential role for this domain in DNA replication.
Fourteen Saharawi celiac children following an African-style gluten-free diet for at least two years were subjected to a change of diet to an Italian-style gluten-free diet for 60 days. Significant differences were identified in the salivary microbiota and metabolome when Saharawi celiac children switched from African- to Italian-style dietary habits. An Italian-style gluten-free diet caused increases in the abundance of Granulicatella, Porphyromonas and Neisseria and decreases in Clostridium, Prevotella and Veillonella, altering the 'salivary type'of the individuals. Furthermore, operational taxonomic unit co-occurrence/exclusion patterns indicated that the initial equilibrium of co-occurring microbial species was perturbed by a change in diet: the microbial diversity was reduced, with a few species out-competing the previously established microbiota and becoming dominant. Analysis of predicted metagenomes revealed a remarkable change in the metabolic potential of the microbiota following the diet change, with increased potential for amino acid, vitamin and co-factor metabolism. High concentrations of acetone and 2-butanone during treatment with the Italian-style gluten-free diet suggested metabolic dysfunction in the Saharawi celiac children. The findings of this study support the need for a translational medicine pipeline to examine interactions between food and microbiota when evaluating human development, nutritional needs and the impact and consequences of westernisation.
Genome sequences diverge more rapidly in mammals than in other animal lineages, such as birds or insects. However, the effect of this rapid divergence on transcriptional evolution remains unclear. Recent reports have indicated a faster divergence of transcription factor binding in mammals than in insects, but others found the reverse for mRNA expression. Here, we show that these conflicting interpretations resulted from differing methodologies. We performed an integrated analysis of transcriptional network evolution by examining mRNA expression, transcription factor binding and cis-regulatory motifs across >25 animal species, including mammals, birds and insects. Strikingly, we found that transcriptional networks evolve at a common rate across the three animal lineages. Furthermore, differences in rates of genome divergence were greatly reduced when restricting comparisons to chromatin-accessible sequences. The evolution of transcription is thus decoupled from the global rate of genome sequence evolution, suggesting that a small fraction of the genome regulates transcription.
Histone-modifying enzymes are required for cell identity and lineage commitment, however little is known about the regulatory origins of the epigenome during embryonic development. Here we generate a comprehensive set of epigenome reference maps, which we use to determine the extent to which maternal factors shape chromatin state in Xenopus embryos. Using α-amanitin to inhibit zygotic transcription, we find that the majority of H3K4me3- and H3K27me3-enriched regions form a maternally defined epigenetic regulatory space with an underlying logic of hypomethylated islands. This maternal regulatory space extends to a substantial proportion of neurula stage-activated promoters. In contrast, p300 recruitment to distal regulatory regions requires embryonic transcription at most loci. The results show that H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 are part of a regulatory space that exerts an extended maternal control well into post-gastrulation development, and highlight the combinatorial action of maternal and zygotic factors through proximal and distal regulatory sequences.
Vetiver, a perennial C 4 grass, has long been known for its multifarious uses in perfumery, medicine and environmental protection. Two distinct vetiver morphotypes have been identified in India, i.e., A. North Indian type characterized by thick and smooth fast growing roots that produce superior quality of laevorotatory oil; and B. South Indian type with more number of thin and hairy roots that produce inferior quality of dextrorotatory oil. The two morphotypes were targeted for transcriptome analysis to understand the contribution of genetic background on oil quality and root morphology. Sample A showed enhanced activity of flavonoid and terpenoid biosynthesis related genes, i.e. ERF, MYB, bHLH, bZIP and WRKY. Interestingly, expression analysis revealed that the genes involved in sesquiterpene biosynthesis pathway were up regulated in Sample A. Moreover, some of the genes involved in mevalonate pathway of sesquiterpene biosynthesis were unique to Sample A. Our results also demonstrated several transcripts involved in root development and hormonal regulation being up regulated in Sample A. To validate gene expression results of RNA-seq data, 20 transcripts were validated by qRT-PCR experiment. The present study provided an important start point for further discovery of genes related to root oil quality in different ecotypes of vetiver.
Polymerase (RNA) II (DNA directed) polypeptide A (RPB1) is the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), and phosphorylation of its C-terminal domain (CTD) is required for transcription initiation, elongation and RNA processing. Little is known about the CTD phosphorylation pattern and potential function during cell division when transcription is silenced. In this study, we assessed the protein expression and subcellular distribution of RPB1 during mouse oocyte meiotic division. Western blot analysis revealed that the RPB1 CTD was highly phosphorylated on Ser2 (pRPB1Ser2), Ser5 (pRPB1Ser5) and Ser7 (pRPB1Ser7). High and stable expression of pRPB1Ser2 and pRPB1Ser5 was detected from germinal vesicle (GV) to Metaphase II (MII) stage. In contrast, pRPB1Ser7 only emerged after germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD) and gradually increased to its peak level at metaphase I (MI) and MII. Immunofluorescence demonstrated that pRPB1Ser2, pRPB1Ser5 and pRPB1Ser7 were pronouncedly aggregated within the nucleus of GV oocytes with a non-surrounded nucleolus (NSN) but very faintly labeled in oocytes with a surrounded nucleolus (SN). After meiotic resumption, pRPB1Ser2 was again detected at spindle poles and co-localized with key microtubule organizing center (MTOC) components, pericentrin and γ-tubulin. pRPB1Ser5 and pRPB1Ser7 were assembled as filamentous aggregates and co-localized with microtubules throughout the spindle structure, responding to spindle-disturbing drugs, nocodazole or taxol, in pattern strongly similar to microtubules. pRPB1Ser2 and pRPB1Ser5 were constantly localized on chromosomes, with a relatively high concentration in centromere areas. Taken together, our data suggest that the CTD is highly phosphorylated and may be required for accurate chromosome segregation in mouse oocytes during meiosis.
A biomimic reconstituted high-density-lipoprotein-based drug and p53 gene co-delivery system (rHDL/CD-PEI/p53 complexes) was fabricated as a targeted co-delivery nanovector of drug and gene for potential bladder cancer therapy. Here, CD-PEI was utilized to effectively condense the p53 plasmid, to incorporate the plasmid into rHDL, and to act as an antitumor drug to suppress tumor angiogenesis. The rHDL/CD-PEI/p53 complexes exhibited desirable and homogenous particle size, neutral surface charge, and low cytotoxicity in vitro. The results of confocal laser scanning microscopy and flow cytometry confirmed that SR-BI-targeted function induced specific cytoplasmic delivery and high gene transfection efficiency in MBT-2 murine bladder cells. In addition, rHDL/CD-PEI/p53 complexes co-delivering CD and p53 gene achieved synergistic angiogenesis suppression by more effectively downregulating the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein via different pathways in vitro. In vivo investigation on C3H/He mice bearing MBT-2 tumor xenografts revealed that rHDL/CD-PEI/p53 complexes possessed strong antitumor activity. These findings suggested that rHDL/CD-PEI/p53 complexes could be an ideal tumor-targeting system for simultaneous transfer of drug and gene, which might be a new promising strategy for effective bladder cancer therapy.
INTRODUCTION: Pilocytic astrocytomas are slow-growing tumors that usually occur in the cerebellum or in the midline along the hypothalamic/optic pathways. The most common genetic alterations in pilocytic astrocytomas activate the ERK/MAPK signal transduction pathway, which is a major driver of proliferation but is also believed to induce senescence in these tumors. Here, we have conducted a detailed investigation of microRNA and gene expression, together with pathway analysis, to improve our understanding of the regulatory mechanisms in pilocytic astrocytomas. RESULTS: Pilocytic astrocytomas were found to have distinctive microRNA and gene expression profiles compared to normal brain tissue and a selection of other pediatric brain tumors. Several microRNAs found to be up-regulated in pilocytic astrocytomas are predicted to target the ERK/MAPK and NF-κB signaling pathways as well as genes involved in senescence-associated inflammation and cell cycle control. Furthermore, IGFBP7 and CEBPB, which are transcriptional inducers of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), were also up-regulated together with the markers of senescence and inflammation, CDKN1A (p21), CDKN2A (p16) and IL1B. CONCLUSION: These findings provide further evidence of a senescent phenotype in pilocytic astrocytomas. In addition, they suggest that the ERK/MAPK pathway, which is considered the major driver of these tumors, is regulated not only by genetic aberrations but also by microRNAs.
Enabled by high-throughput sequencing approaches, epithelial cancers across a range of tissue types are seen to harbor gene fusions as integral to their landscape of somatic aberrations. Although many gene fusions are found at high frequency in several rare solid cancers, apart from fusions involving the ETS family of transcription factors which have been seen in approximately 50 % of prostate cancers, several other common solid cancers have been shown to harbor recurrent gene fusions at low frequencies. On the other hand, many gene fusions involving oncogenes, such as those encoding ALK, RAF or FGFR kinase families, have been detected across multiple different epithelial carcinomas. Tumor-specific gene fusions can serve as diagnostic biomarkers or help define molecular subtypes of tumors; for example, gene fusions involving oncogenes such as ERG, ETV1, TFE3, NUT, POU5F1, NFIB, PLAG1, and PAX8 are diagnostically useful. Tumors with fusions involving therapeutically targetable genes such as ALK, RET, BRAF, RAF1, FGFR1-4, and NOTCH1-3 have immediate implications for precision medicine across tissue types. Thus, ongoing cancer genomic and transcriptomic analyses for clinical sequencing need to delineate the landscape of gene fusions. Prioritization of potential oncogenic "drivers" from "passenger" fusions, and functional characterization of potentially actionable gene fusions across diverse tissue types, will help translate these findings into clinical applications. Here, we review recent advances in gene fusion discovery and the prospects for medicine.
Background: Recent outbreaks of canine distemper have prompted examination of strains from clinical samples submitted to the University of Tennessee College of Veterinary Medicine (UTCVM) Clinical Virology Lab. We previously described a new strain of CDV that significantly diverged from all genotypes reported to date including America 2, the genotype proposed to be the main lineage currently circulating in the US. The aim of this study was to determine when this new strain appeared and how widespread it is in animal populations, given that it has also been detected in fully vaccinated adult dogs. Additionally, we sequenced complete viral genomes to characterize the strain and determine if variation is confined to known variable regions of the genome or if the changes are also present in more conserved regions. Methods: Archived clinical samples were genotyped using real-time RT-PCR amplification and sequencing. The genomes of two unrelated viruses from a dog and fox each from a different state were sequenced and aligned with previously published genomes. Phylogenetic analysis was performed using coding, non-coding and genome-length sequences. Virus neutralization assays were used to evaluate potential antigenic differences between this strain and a vaccine strain and mixed ANOVA test was used to compare the titers. Results: Genotyping revealed this strain first appeared in 2011 and was detected in dogs from multiple states in the Southeast region of the United States. It was the main strain detected among the clinical samples that were typed from 2011-2013, including wildlife submissions. Genome sequencing demonstrated that it is highly conserved within a new lineage and preliminary serologic testing showed significant differences in neutralizing antibody titers between this strain and the strain commonly used in vaccines. Conclusion: This new strain represents an emerging CDV in domestic dogs in the US, may be associated with a stable reservoir in the wildlife population, and could facilitate vaccine escape.
Immune responses are tightly regulated to ensure efficient pathogen clearance while avoiding tissue damage. Here we report that Setdb2 was the only protein lysine methyltransferase induced during infection with influenza virus. Setdb2 expression depended on signaling via type I interferons, and Setdb2 repressed expression of the gene encoding the neutrophil attractant CXCL1 and other genes that are targets of the transcription factor NF-Î° B. This coincided with occupancy by Setdb2 at the Cxcl1 promoter, which in the absence of Setdb2 displayed diminished trimethylation of histone H3 Lys9 (H3K9me3). Mice with a hypomorphic gene-trap construct of Setdb2 exhibited increased infiltration of neutrophils during sterile lung inflammation and were less sensitive to bacterial superinfection after infection with influenza virus. This suggested that a Setdb2-mediated regulatory crosstalk between the type I interferons and NF-κ B pathways represents an important mechanism for virus-induced susceptibility to bacterial superinfection.
Background: Norovirus (NoV) is a leading cause of sporadic cases and outbreaks of acute gastroenteritis (AGE). Increased NoV activity was observed in Beijing, China during winter 2014-2015; therefore, we examined the epidemiological patterns and genetic characteristics of NoV in the sporadic cases and outbreaks. Methods: The weekly number of infectious diarrhea cases reported by all hospitals in Beijing was analyzed through the China information system for disease control and prevention. Fecal specimens were collected from the outbreaks and outpatients with AGE, and GI and GII NoVs were detected using real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. The partial capsid genes and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) genes of NoV were both amplified and sequenced, and genotyping and phylogenetic analyses were performed. Results: Between December 2014 and March 2015, the number of infectious diarrhea cases in Beijing (10,626 cases) increased by 35.6% over that of the previous year (7835 cases), and the detection rate of NoV (29.8%, 191/640) among outpatients with AGE was significantly higher than in the previous year (12.9%, 79/613) (χ 2=53.252, P<0.001). Between November 2014 and March 2015, 35 outbreaks of AGE were reported in Beijing, and NoVs were detected in 33 outbreaks, all of which belonged to the GII genogroup. NoVs were sequenced and genotyped in 22 outbreaks, among which 20 were caused by a novel GII.17 strain. Among outpatients with AGE, this novel GII.17 strain was first detected in an outpatient in August 2014, and it replaced GII.4 Sydney_2012 as the predominant variant between December 2014 and March 2015. A phylogenetic analysis of the capsid genes and RdRp genes revealed that this novel GII.17 strain was distinct from previously identified GII variants, and it was recently designated as GII.P17_GII.17. This variant was further clustered into two sub-groups, named GII.17_2012 and GII.17_2014. During winter 2014-2015, GII.17_2014 caused the majority of AGE outbreaks in China and Japan. Conclusions: During winter 2014-2015, a novel NoV GII.17 variant replaced the GII.4 variant Sydney 2012 as the predominant strain in Beijing, China and caused increased NoV activity.
We report the development of a next-generation sequencing-based technology that entails construction of a DNA library comprising up to at least 47 (~16,000) barcoded sequences, production of RNA transcripts, and analysis of transcript ends and transcript yields (massively systematic transcript end readout, "MASTER"). Using MASTER, we define full inventories of transcription start sites ("TSSomes") of Escherichia coli RNA polymerase for initiation at a consensus core promoter in vitro and in vivo; we define the TSS-region DNA sequence determinants for TSS selection, reiterative initiation ("slippage synthesis"), and transcript yield; and we define effects of DNA topology and NTP concentration. The results reveal that slippage synthesis occurs from the majority of TSS-region DNA sequences and that TSS-region DNA sequences have profound, up to 100-fold, effects on transcript yield. The results further reveal that TSSomes depend on DNA topology, consistent with the proposal that TSS selection involves transcription-bubble expansion ("scrunching") and transcription-bubble contraction ("anti-scrunching").
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research.MicroRNAs (miRNAs), small non-coding RNA molecules, are important biomarkers for research and medical purposes. Here, we describe the development of a fast and simple method using highly fluorescent oligonucleotide-silver nanocluster probes (DNA/AgNCs) to efficiently detect specific miRNAs. Due to the great sequence diversity of miRNAs in humans and other organisms, a uniform strategy for miRNA detection is attractive. The concept presented is an oligonucleotide-based locking-to-unlocking system that can be endowed with miRNA complementarity while maintaining the same secondary structure. The locking-to-unlocking system is based on fold-back anchored DNA templates that consist of a cytosine-rich loop for AgNCs stabilization, an miRNA recognition site and an overlap region for hairpin stabilization. When an miRNA is recognized, fluorescence in the visible region is specifically extinguished in a concentration-dependent manner. Here, the exact composition of the fold-back anchor for the locking-to-unlocking system has been systematically optimized, balancing propensity for loop-structure formation, encapsulation of emissive AgNCs and target sensitivity. It is demonstrated that the applied strategy successfully can detect a number of cancer related miRNAs in RNA extracts from human cancer cell lines.
Genome engineering has been greatly enhanced by the availability of Cas9 endonuclease that can be targeted to almost any genomic locus using so called guide RNAs (gRNAs). However, the introduction of foreign DNA sequences to tag an endogenous gene is still cumbersome as it requires the synthesis or cloning of homology templates. Here we present a strategy that enables the tagging of endogenous loci using one generic donor plasmid. It contains the tag of interest flanked by two gRNA recognition sites that allow excision of the tag from the plasmid. Co-transfection of cells with Cas9, a gRNA specifying the genomic locus of interest, the donor plasmid and a cassette-specific gRNA triggers the insertion of the tag by a homology-independent mechanism. The strategy is efficient and delivers clones that display a predictable integration pattern. As showcases we generated NanoLuc luciferase- and TurboGFP-tagged reporter cell lines.
A membrane bioreactor (MBR), fed with domestic wastewater, was bioaugmented with nitrifying biomass selected in a side-stream MBR fed with a synthetic high nitrogen-loaded influent. Microbial communities evolution was monitored and comparatively analysed through an extensive bio-molecular investigation (16S rRNA gene library construction and terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism techniques) followed by statistical analyses. As expected, a highly specialized nitrifying biomass was selected in the side-stream reactor fed with high-strength ammonia synthetic wastewater. The bioaugmentation process caused an increase of nitrifying bacteria of the genera Nitrosomonas (up to more than 30%) and Nitrobacter in the inoculated MBR reactor. The overall structure of the microbial community changed in the mainstream MBR as a result of bioaugmentation. The effect of bioaugmentation in the shift of the microbial community was also verified through statistical analysis.
Genomics is the study of all the genes in an organism. Other key 'omics' include transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics describing studies of biological systems at the transcript, protein, and metabolite levels. Recent rapid advances in DNA sequencing technology have enabled the more widespread application of the tools of genomics in the study and utilization of grain foods. Functional genomics and association genetics link genome sequence data to grain-quality attributes.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease. The average age of onset of both sporadic and familial cases is 50-60. years of age. The presence of cytoplasmic inclusions of the RNA-binding protein TAR DNA-binding protein-43 (TDP-43) in the affected neurons is seen in 95% of the ALS cases, which results in TDP-43 nuclear clearance and loss of function. The Drosophila melanogaster ortholog of TDP-43 (TBPH) shares many characteristics with the human protein. Using a TDP-43 aggregation inducer previously developed in human cells, we created a transgenic fly that shows an adult locomotive defect. Phenotype onset correlates with a physiologically age-related drop of TDP-43/TBPH mRNA and protein levels, seen both in mice and flies. Artificial reduction of mRNA levels, in vivo, anticipates the locomotion defect to the larval stage. Our study links, for the first time, aggregation and the age-related, evolutionary conserved reduction of TDP-43/TBPH levels with the onset of an ALS-like locomotion defect in a Drosophila model. A similar process might trigger the human disease.
How stochastic is gene expression in mammalian cells? Not very, according to Battich et al., who report that single-cell variability in cytoplasmic mRNAs is remarkably predictable given measurements of a cell's phenotypic state and microenvironment. The noise from transcriptional bursts is buffered by a hallmark of eukaryotes - the nucleus.
The staphylococcal YeaZ is highly conserved in prokaryotic cells and critical for growth of many bacterial pathogens. However, the essentiality for Staphylococcus aureus growth and the biological function of YeaZ behind its essentiality remain undefined. In this study, we created and characterized a defined Pspac-regulated yeaZ expression mutant in S. aureus and demonstrated the indispensability of YeaZ for S. aureus growth. Moreover, we conducted complementation studies, not only confirmed the requirement of YeaZ for S. aureus growth, but also revealed a similarity of essential function between staphylococcal YeaZ and its E. coli homolog. On the other hand, we explored the biological functions of YeaZ and found that YeaZ is involved in the regulation of the transcription of ilv-leu operon that encodes key enzymes responsible for the biosynthesis of the branched-chain amino acids, including isoleucine, leucine, and valine (ILV). qPCR analysis showed that the 6-fold downregulation of YeaZ dramatically elevated approximately 17- to 289-fold RNA levels of ilvD, leuA and ilvA. We further confirmed the transcriptional regulation of the ilv-leu operon by YeaZ using an ilv-promoter-lux reporter system and gel-shift assays and revealed that YeaZ is able to bind the promoter region of ilv. Furthermore, we established that the regulation of ILV biosynthesis isn’t associated with YeaZ’s essentiality, as the deletion of the ilv-leu operon did not affect the requirement of YeaZ for growth in culture. Our results demonstrate the essentiality of YeaZ for S. aureus growth and suggest that the staphylococcal YeaZ possesses regulatory function.
The congenital sideroblastic anemias (CSAs) are relatively uncommon diseases characterized by defects in mitochondrial heme synthesis, iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster biogenesis, or protein synthesis. Here we demonstrate that mutations in HSPA9, a mitochondrial HSP70 homolog located in the chromosome 5q deletion syndrome 5q33 critical deletion interval and involved in mitochondrial Fe-S biogenesis, result in CSA inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. In a fraction of patients with just 1 severe loss-of-function allele, expression of the clinical phenotype is associated with a common coding single nucleotide polymorphism in trans that correlates with reduced messenger RNA expression and results in a pseudodominant pattern of inheritance.
RNA interference (RNAi) in insects is a gene regulatory process that also plays a vital role in the maintenance and in the regulation of host defenses against invading viruses. Small RNAs determine the specificity of the RNAi through precise recognition of their targets. These small RNAs in insects comprise small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), micro RNAs (miRNAs) and Piwi interacting RNAs (piRNAs) of various lengths. In this review, we have explored different forms of the RNAi inducers that are presently in use, and their applications for an effective and efficient fundamental and practical RNAi research with insects. Further, we reviewed trends in next generation sequencing (NGS) technologies and their importance for insect RNAi, including the identification of novel insect targets as well as insect viruses. Here we also describe a rapidly emerging trend of using plant viruses to deliver the RNAi inducer molecules into insects for an efficient RNAi response.
The SALK_135513 line of Arabidopsis thaliana is annotated by GenBank to have the T-DNA insertion in the fourth exon of NBR1 (At4g24690). Careful molecular analyses of the homozygous plants of SALK_135513 line indicated the place of T-DNA insertion in the fourth intron. Unexpectedly, 2 kinds of NBR1 transcripts, the wild-type and the mutated, resulting from alternative splicing events, were detected in those plants. Our findings explain the problems encountered by us with phenotypic evaluation of this line and emphasize the necessity for independent verification of the exact insertion site followed by careful expression studies when working with Arabidopsis T-DNA insertional mutants.
; licensee BioMed Central.Background: The disruption of the bacterial cell wall plays an important part in achieving quantitative extraction of DNA from Eubacteria essential for accurate analyses of genetic material recovered from environmental samples. Results: In this work we have tested a dozen commercial bacterial genomic DNA extraction methodologies on an average of 7.70 × 106 (±9.05%), 4.77 × 108 (±31.0%), and 5.93 × 108 (±4.69%) colony forming units (CFU) associated with 3 cultures ( n = 3) each of Brochothrix thermosphacta (Bt; Gram-positive), Shigella sonnei (Ss; Gram-negative), and Escherichia coli O79 (Ec; Gram-negative). We have utilized real-time PCR (qPCR) quantification with two specific sets of primers associated with the 16S rRNA "gene" to determine the number of copies CFU-1 by comparing the unknown target DNA qPCR results with standards for each primer set. Based upon statistical analyses of our results, we determined that the Agencourt Genfind v2, High Pure PCR Template Prep Kit, and Omnilyse methods consistently provided the best yield of genomic DNA ranging from 141 to 934, 8 to 21, and 16 to 27 16S rDNA copies CFU-1 for Bt, Ss, and Ec. If one assumes 6-7 copies of the 16S r RNA gene per genome, between 1 and 3 genomes per actively dividing cell and ≥ 100 cells CFU-1 for Bt (found to be a reasonable assumption using an optical method expounded upon herein) or between 1 and 2 cells CFU-1 for either Ss or Ec, then the Omnilyse procedure provided nearly quantitative extraction of genomic DNA from these isolates (934 ± 19.9 copies CFU-1 for Bt; 20.8 ± 2.68 copies CFU-1 for Ss; 26.9 ± 3.39 copies CFU-1 for Ec). The Agencourt, High Pure, and Omnilyse technologies were subsequently assessed using 5 additional Gram-positive and 10 Gram-negative foodborne isolates (n = 3) using a set of "universal" 16S rDNA primers. Conclusion: Overall, the most notable DNA extraction method was found to be the Omnilyse procedure which is a "bead blender" technology involving high frequency agitation in the presence of zirconium silicate beads.
The mammalian inner ear consists of the cochlea and the vestibular labyrinth (utricle, saccule, and semicircular canals), which participate in both hearing and balance. Proper development and life-long function of these structures involves a highly complex coordinated system of spatial and temporal gene expression. The characterization of the inner ear transcriptome is likely important for the functional study of auditory and vestibular components, yet, primarily due to tissue unavailability, detailed expression catalogues of the human inner ear remain largely incomplete. We report here, for the first time, comprehensive transcriptome characterization of the adult human cochlea, ampulla, saccule and utricle of the vestibule obtained from patients without hearing abnormalities. Using RNA-Seq, we measured the expression of > 50,000 predicted genes corresponding to approximately 200,000 transcripts, in the adult inner ear and compared it to 32 other human tissues. First, we identified genes preferentially expressed in the inner ear, and unique either to the vestibule or cochlea. Next, we examined expression levels of specific groups of potentially interesting RNAs, such as genes implicated in hearing loss, long non-coding RNAs, pseudogenes and transcripts subject to nonsense mediated decay (NMD). We uncover the spatial specificity of expression of these RNAs in the hearing/balance system, and reveal evidence of tissue specific NMD. Lastly, we investigated the nonsyndromic deafness loci to which no gene has been mapped, and narrow the list of potential candidates for each locus. These data represent the first high-resolution transcriptome catalogue of the adult human inner ear. A comprehensive identification of coding and non-coding RNAs in the inner ear will enable pathways of auditory and vestibular function to be further defined in the study of hearing and balance. Expression data are freely accessible at https://www.tgen.org/home/research/research-divisions/neurogenomics/ supplementary-data/inner-ear-transcriptome.aspx.
Plant responses to abiotic stresses are controlled by a complex tier of epigenetic, transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation. We have provided evidence that the DEAD-box RNA helicases, STRESS RESPONSE SUPPRESSOR (STRS) 1 and STRS2 are negative regulators of Arabidopsis thaliana stressresponsive transcription factors. Using GFP-STRS fusion proteins, we have demonstrated that the STRSs are localized to the nucleolus and chromocenters, and are rapidly removed to the nucleoplasm upon application of various abiotic stresses. The STRSs appear to act via RNA-directed DNA methylation to suppress Arabidopsis stress responses; this repressive epigenetic mechanism is abrogated by abiotic stress eventually leading to an open chromatin structure allowing expression of stress-responsive genes.
Phytoplasmas ('Candidatus Phytoplasma' spp.) are insect-vectored bacteria that infect a wide variety of plants, including many agriculturally important species. The infections can cause devastating yield losses by inducing morphological changes that dramatically alter inflorescence development. Detection of phytoplasma infection typically utilizes sequences located within the 16S-23S rRNA-encoding locus, and these sequences are necessary for strain identification by currently accepted standards for phytoplasma classification. However, these methods can generate PCR products .1400 bp that are less divergent in sequence than proteinencoding genes, limiting strain resolution in certain cases. We describe a method for accessing the chaperonin-60 (cpn60) gene sequence from a diverse array of 'Ca.Phytoplasma' spp. Two degenerate primer sets were designed based on the known sequence diversity of cpn60 from 'Ca.Phytoplasma' spp. and used to amplify cpn60 gene fragments from various reference samples and infected plant tissues. Forty three cpn60 sequences were thereby determined. The cpn60 PCRgel electrophoresis method was highly sensitive compared to 16S-23S-targeted PCR-gel electrophoresis. The topology of a phylogenetic tree generated using cpn60 sequences was congruent with that reported for 16S rRNA-encoding genes. The cpn60 sequences were used to design a hybridization array using oligonucleotide-coupled fluorescent microspheres, providing rapid diagnosis and typing of phytoplasma infections. The oligonucleotide-coupled fluorescent microsphere assay revealed samples that were infected simultaneously with two subtypes of phytoplasma. These tools were applied to show that two host plants, Brassica napus and Camelina sativa, displayed different phytoplasma infection patterns.
Copyright: © 2014 Stathias et al. This is an openaccess article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.Patient specific therapy is emerging as an important possibility for many cancer patients. However, to identify such therapies it is essential to determine the genomic and transcriptional alterations present in one tumor relative to control samples. This presents a challenge since use of a single sample precludes many standard statistical analysis techniques. We reasoned that one means of addressing this issue is by comparing transcriptional changes in one tumor with those observed in a large cohort of patients analyzed by The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). To test this directly, we devised a bioinformatics pipeline to identify differentially expressed genes in tumors resected from patients suffering from the most common malignant adult brain tumor, glioblastoma (GBM). We performed RNA sequencing on tumors from individual GBM patients and filtered the results through the TCGA database in order to identify possible gene networks that are overrepresented in GBM samples relative to controls. Importantly, we demonstrate that hypergeometric-based analysis of gene pairs identifies gene networks that validate experimentally. These studies identify a putative workflow for uncovering differentially expressed patient specific genes and gene networks for GBM and other cancers.
Molecular cloning is utilized in nearly every facet of biological and medical research. We have developed a method, termed Hot Fusion, to efficiently clone one or multiple DNA fragments into plasmid vectors without the use of ligase. The method is directional, produces seamless junctions and is not dependent on the availability of restriction sites for inserts. Fragments are assembled based on shared homology regions of 17-30 bp at the junctions, which greatly simplifies the construct design. Hot Fusion is carried out in a one-step, single tube reaction at 50°C for one hour followed by cooling to room temperature. In addition to its utility for multi-fragment assembly Hot Fusion provides a highly efficient method for cloning DNA fragments containing inverted repeats for applications such as RNAi. The overall cloning efficiency is in the order of 90-95%.
The fermentation of sausages is a complex process involving different species of lactic acid bacteria, coagulase-negative cocci, and yeasts. The molecular techniques developed to date allow for a fast and precise identification of strains; the use of culture-independent methods applied at the DNA and RNA level permits problems related to traditional isolation to be overcome and, together with culture-dependent methods, allows for the definition of microbial dynamics during fermentation. Furthermore, the application of techniques for the characterization of isolates allows the study of intraspecies biodiversity. In this light, this Chapter aims to describe the findings of the application of molecular methods in order to provide a better comprehension of the ecology of sausage fermentation.
The 2014 OECI Oncology Days was held at the 'Prof. Dr. Ion Chiricuta' Oncology Institute in Cluj, Romania, from 12 to 13 June. The focus of this year's gathering was on developments in personalised medicine and other treatment advances which have made the cost of cancer care too high for many regions throughout Europe.
Tetrazine ligations have proven to be a powerful bioorthogonal technique for the detection of many labeled biomolecules, but the ligating nature of these reactions can limit reaction turnover in templated chemistry. We have developed a transfer reaction between 7-azabenzonorbornadiene derivatives and fluorogenic tetrazines that facilitates turnover amplification of the fluorogenic response in nucleic acid-templated reactions. Fluorogenic tetrazine-mediated transfer (TMT) reaction probes can be used to detect DNA and microRNA (miRNA) templates to 0.5 and 5 pM concentrations, respectively. The endogenous oncogenic miRNA target mir-21 could be detected in crude cell lysates and detected by imaging in live cells. Remarkably, the technique is also able to differentiate between miRNA templates bearing a single mismatch with high signal to background. We imagine that TMT reactions could find wide application for amplified fluorescent detection of clinically relevant nucleic acid templates.
Osteosarcoma is an aggressive bone tumor that preferentially develops in adolescents. The tumor is characterized by an abundance of genomic aberrations, which hampers the identification of the driver genes involved in osteosarcoma tumorigenesis. Our study aims to identify these genes by the investigation of focal copy number aberrations (CNAs, <3 Mb). For this purpose, we subjected 26 primary tumors of osteosarcoma patients to high-resolution single nucleotide polymorphism array analyses and identified 139 somatic focal CNAs. Of these, 72 had at least one gene located within or overlapping the focal CNA, with a total of 94 genes. For 84 of these genes, the expression status in 31 osteosarcoma samples was determined by expression microarray analysis. This enabled us to identify the genes of which the over- or underexpression was in more than 35% of cases in accordance to their copy number status (gain or loss). These candidate genes were subsequently validated in an independent set and furthermore corroborated as driver genes by verifying their role in other tumor types. We identified CMTM8 as a new candidate tumor suppressor gene and GPR177 as a new candidate oncogene in osteosarcoma. In osteosarcoma, CMTM8 has been shown to suppress EGFR signaling. In other tumor types, CMTM8 is known to suppress the activity of the oncogenic protein c-Met and GPR177 is known as an overexpressed upstream regulator of the Wnt-pathway. Further studies are needed to determine whether these proteins also exert the latter functions in osteosarcoma tumorigenesis.
Purpose: To characterize the spectrum of CYP4V2 gene mutations in 92 unrelated Chinese probands with Bietti’s crystalline dystrophy (BCD) and to describe the molecular and clinical characteristics of four novel CYP4V2 mutations associated with BCD.Methods: All study participants underwent a complete ophthalmological examination. Mutational screening of CYP4V2 coding regions and flanking intron sequences was examined via directional Sanger sequencing, with allele separation confirmed by screening other family members. Subsequent in silico analysis of the mutational consequence on protein function was undertaken, with the impact of the novel mutation on pre-mRNA splicing examined via RT–PCR.Results: Fifteen disease-causing variants were identified in 92 probands with BCD, including four novel mutations and eleven previously reported mutations. The most prevalent mutation was c.802_810del17insGC, which was detected in 69 unrelated families, with an allele frequency of 52.7% (97/184). Homozygosity was revealed in 35 unrelated families, and compound heterozygosity was observed in 43 subjects. Four patients harbored four novel variants, with these mutations cosegregated within all affected individuals and were not found in unaffected family members and 100 unrelated controls. Transcriptional analysis of a novel splice mutation revealed altered RNA splicing. In silico analysis predicted that the missense variant, p.Tyr343Asp, disrupted the CYP4V2 surface electrostatic potential distribution and spatial conformation. Among the patients with four novel mutations, genotype did not always correlate with age at onset, disease course, or electroretinogram (ERG) changes, with phenotypic variations even noted within the same genotype.Conclusions: The c.802_810del17insCG mutation was the most common mutation in the 92 Chinese probands with BCD examined. Four novel mutations were identified, contributing to the spectrum of CYP4V2 mutations associated with BCD, with no clear link established between disease phenotype and genotype.
Normal and painful stimuli are detected by specialized subgroups of peripheral sensory neurons. The understanding of the functional differences of each neuronal subgroup would be strongly enhanced by knowledge of the respective subgroup transcriptome. The separation of the subgroup of interest, however, has proven challenging as they can hardly be enriched. Instead of enriching, we now rapidly eliminated the subgroup of neurons expressing the heat-gated cation channel TRPV1 from dissociated rat sensory ganglia. Elimination was accomplished by brief treatment with TRPV1 agonists followed by the removal of compromised TRPV1(+) neurons using density centrifugation. By differential microarray and sequencing (RNA-Seq) based expression profiling we compared the transcriptome of all cells within sensory ganglia versus the same cells lacking TRPV1 expressing neurons, which revealed 240 differentially expressed genes (adj. p<0.05, fold-change>1.5). Corroborating the specificity of the approach, many of these genes have been reported to be involved in noxious heat or pain sensitization. Beyond the expected enrichment of ion channels, we found the TRPV1 transcriptome to be enriched for GPCRs and other signaling proteins involved in adenosine, calcium, and phosphatidylinositol signaling. Quantitative population analysis using a recent High Content Screening (HCS) microscopy approach identified substantial heterogeneity of expressed target proteins even within TRPV1-positive neurons. Signaling components defined distinct further subgroups within the population of TRPV1-positive neurons. Analysis of one such signaling system showed that the pain sensitizing prostaglandin PGD<inf>2</inf> activates DP1 receptors expressed predominantly on TRPV1(+) neurons. In contrast, we found the PGD<inf>2</inf> producing prostaglandin D synthase to be expressed exclusively in myelinated large-diameter neurons lacking TRPV1, which suggests a novel paracrine neuron-neuron communication. Thus, subgroup analysis based on the elimination rather than enrichment of the subgroup of interest revealed proteins that define subclasses of TRPV1-positive neurons and suggests a novel paracrine circuit.
Elevation of the dietary saturated fatty acid palmitate contributes to the reduction of functional beta cell mass in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. The diabetogenic effect of palmitate is achieved by increasing beta cell death through induction of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress markers including activating transcription factor 3 (Atf3) and CAAT/enhancer-binding protein homologous protein-10 (Chop). In this study, we investigated whether treatment of beta cells with the MS-275, a HDAC1 and HDAC3 activity inhibitor which prevents beta cell death elicited by cytokines, is beneficial for combating beta cell dysfunction caused by palmitate. We show that culture of isolated human islets and MIN6 cells with MS-275 reduced apoptosis evoked by palmitate. The protective effect of MS-275 was associated with the attenuation of the expression of Atf3 and Chop. Silencing of HDAC3, but not of HDAC1, mimicked the effects of MS-275 on the expression of the two ER stress markers and apoptosis. These data point to HDAC3 as a potential drug target for preserving beta cells against lipotoxicity in diabetes.
Objective: To establish a high throughput phenotypic test for the detection of drug resistance in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) strains. Methods: The gene encoding luciferase was inactivated through restriction enzyme digestion and ligation. LacZ gene was used to replace the genes encoding original protease and reverse transcriptase, pol genes were amplified from pSG3Δ Aenv plasmid and cloned into a new backbone plasmid through infusion. The factors that might affect the results of the test were optimized. Results: The parental backbone plasmid pNL4-3. Lac was constructed, of which the gene encoding luciferase was inactivated and bearing the LacZ gene instead of genes encoding protease and reverse transcriptase. Several influential factors including cell numbers (10 000/well), virus inoculation (200 TCID50/well) and the concentration of DEAE-dextran (15 μg/ml) were optimized. The reproducibility of this test was confirmed by testing 12 anti-HIV drugs against 2 pseudovirus strains 8 times, presenting the coefficient of variations (CVs) from 4.32% to 28.46%. Six types of pseudovirus were constructed and tested against the 12 anti-HIV drugs, the results of which were compared with those by using the pSG3Δ Aenv-based pseudovirus test. The results of the two tests presented good consistency. Conclusion: The high throughput phenotypic test based on pNL4-3. Lac plasmid, combining the advantages of pSG3Δ Aenv and pNL4-3 systems, could be used to analyze the drug resistance patterns of HIV-1 infectors and screen new drugs for antiretroviral therapy in a rapid and effective way.
Pumilio/feminization of XX and XO animals (fem)-3 mRNA-binding factor (PUF) proteins bind sequence specifically to mRNA targets using a single-stranded RNA-binding domain comprising eight Pumilio (PUM) repeats. PUM repeats have now been identified in proteins that function in pre-rRNA processing, including human Puf-A and yeast Puf6. This is a role not previously ascribed to PUF proteins. Here we present crystal structures of human Puf-A that reveal a class of nucleic acid-binding proteins with 11 PUM repeats arranged in an "L"-like shape. In contrast to classical PUF proteins, Puf-A forms sequence-independent interactions with DNA or RNA, mediated by conserved basic residues. We demonstrate that equivalent basic residues in yeast Puf6 are important for RNA binding, pre-rRNA processing, and mRNA localization. Thus, PUM repeats can be assembled into alternative folds that bind to structured nucleic acids in addition to forming canonical eight-repeat crescent-shaped RNA-binding domains found in classical PUF proteins.
In prokaryotes, small noncoding RNAs (snRNAs) of 50-500 nt are produced that are important in bacterial virulence and response to environmental stimuli. Here, we identified and characterized snRNAs from the endosymbiotic bacteria, Wolbachia, which are widespread in invertebrates and cause reproductive manipulations. Most importantly, some strains of Wolbachia inhibit replication of several vector-borne pathogens in insects. We demonstrate that two abundant snRNAs, WsnRNA-46 and WsnRNA-49, are expressed in Wolbachia from noncoding RNA transcripts that contain precursors with stem-loop structures. WsnRNAs were detected in Aedes aegypti mosquitoes infected with the wMelPop- CLA strain of Wolbachia and in Drosophila melanogaster and Drosophila simulans infected with wMelPop and wAu strains, respectively, indicating that the WsnRNAs are conserved across species and strains. In addition, we show that the WsnRNAs may potentially regulate host genes and Wolbachia genes. Our findings provide evidence for the production of functional snRNAs by Wolbachia that play roles in cross-kingdom communication between the endosymbiont and the host.
An shRNA-mediated screen of the 48 human nuclear receptor genes identified multiple candidates likely to influence the production of human cytomegalovirus in cultured human fibroblasts, including the estrogen-related receptor α (ERRα), an orphan nuclear receptor. The 50-kDa receptor and a 76-kDa variant were induced posttranscriptionally following infection. Genetic and pharmacological suppression of the receptor reduced viral RNA, protein, and DNA accumulation, as well as the yield of infectious progeny. In addition, RNAs encoding multiple metabolic enzymes, including enzymes sponsoring glycolysis (enolase 1, triosephosphate isomerase 1, and hexokinase 2), were reduced when the function of ERRα was inhibited in infected cells. Consistent with the effect on RNAs, a substantial number of metabolites, which are normally induced by infection, were either not increased or were increased to a reduced extent in the absence of normal ERRαactivity. We conclude that ERRα is needed for the efficient production of cytomegalovirus progeny, and we propose that the nuclear receptor contributes importantly to the induction of a metabolic environment that supports optimal cytomegalovirus replication.
Detection of viral and bacterial DNA in nasopharyngeal aspirates (NPAs) is now a routine practice in emergency cases of febrile pneumonia. We investigated whether Pneumocystis jirovecii DNA could also be detected in these cases by conducting retrospective screening of 324 consecutive NPAs from 324 adult patients (198 or 61% were immunocompromised) admitted with suspected pulmonary infections during the 2012 influenza epidemic season, using a real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay (PjqPCR), which targets the P. jirovecii mitochondrial large subunit ribosomal RNA gene. These NPAs had already been tested for 22 respiratory pathogens (18 viruses and 4 bacteria), but we found that 16 NPAs (4.9%) were PjqPCR-positive, making P. jirovecii the fourth most prevalent of the 23 microorganisms in the screen. Eleven of the 16 PjqPCR-positive patients were immunocompromised, and five had underlying pulmonary conditions. Nine NPAs were also positive for another respiratory pathogen. Six had PjqPCR-positive induced sputa less than 3 days after the NPA procedure, and five were diagnosed with pneumocystis pneumonia (four with chronic lymphoproliferative disorders and one AIDS patient). In all six available pairs quantification of P. jirovecii DNA showed fewer copies in NPA than in induced sputum and three PjqPCR-negative NPAs corresponded to PjqPCR-positive bronchoalveolar lavage fluids, underscoring the fact that a negative PjqPCR screen does not exclude a diagnosis of pneumocystosis. Including P. jirovecii DNA detection to the panel ofmicroorganisms included in screening tests used for febrile pneumoniamay encourage additional investigations or support use of anti-pneumocystis pneumonia prophylaxis in immunocompromised patients.
The signal transduction pathway of the DNA damage response (DDR) is activated to maintain genomic integrity following DNA damage. The DDR promotes genomic integrity by regulating a large network of cellular activities that range from DNA replication and repair to transcription, RNA splicing, and metabolism. In this study we define an interaction between the DDR factor NBS1 and TCOF1, a nucleolar protein that regulates ribosomal DNA (rDNA) transcription and is mutated in Treacher Collins syndrome. We show that NBS1 relocalizes to nucleoli after DNA damage in a manner dependent on TCOF1 and on casein kinase II and ATM, which are known to modify TCOF1 by phosphorylation. Moreover, we identify a putative ATM phosphorylation site that is required for NBS1 relocalization to nucleoli in response to DNA damage. Last, we report that TCOF1 promotes cellular resistance to DNA damaging agents. Collectively, our findings identify TCOF1 as a DDR factor that could cooperate with ATM and NBS1 to suppress inappropriate rDNA transcription and maintain genomic integrity after DNA damage.
All rights reserved: reproduction in whole or part not permitted The yellow tortrix, Acleris fimbriana belongs to Tortricidae in Lepidoptera. We described the complete mitogenome of A. fimbriana, which is typical circular duplex molecules and 15,933 bp in length containing the standard metazoan set of 13 protein-coding genes, 22 transfer RNA genes, 2 ribosomal RNA genes and an A + T-rich region with macro-repeat sequences. All the inferred tRNA secondary structures show the common cloverleaf pattern, with the exception of trnS1(AGN) which lacks the DHU arm. The A. fimbriana mitochondrial genome has the same gene order with other lepidopterans.
The ability to regulate gene expression is of central importance for the adaptability of living organisms to changes in their external and internal environment. At the transcriptional level, binding of transcription factors (TFs) in the promoter region can modulate the transcription rate, hence making TFs central players in gene regulation. For some model organisms, information about the locations and identities of discovered TF binding sites have been collected in continually updated databases, such as RegulonDB for the well-studied case of E. coli. In order to reveal the general principles behind the binding-site arrangement and function of these regulatory architectures we propose a random promoter architecture model that preserves the overall abundance of binding sites to identify overrepresented binding site configurations. This model is analogous to the random network model used in the study of genetic network motifs, where regulatory motifs are identified through their overrepresentation with respect to a "randomly connected" genetic network. Using our model we identify TF pairs which coregulate operons in an overrepresented fashion, or individual TFs which act at multiple binding sites per promoter by, for example, cooperative binding, DNA looping, or through multiple binding domains. We furthermore explore the relationship between promoter architecture and gene expression, using three different genome-wide protein copy number censuses. Perhaps surprisingly, we find no systematic correlation between the number of activator and repressor binding sites regulating a gene and the level of gene expression. A position-weight-matrix model used to estimate the binding affinity of RNA polymerase (RNAP) to the promoters of activated and repressed genes suggests that this lack of correlation might in part be due to differences in basal transcription levels, with repressed genes having a higher basal activity level. This quantitative catalogue relating promoter architecture and function provides a first step towards genome-wide predictive models of regulatory function.
Trichloroethylene (TCE), widely used as an organic solvent in the industry, is a common contaminant in air, soil, and water. Chronic TCE exposure induced hepatocellular carcinoma in mice, and occupational exposure in humans was suggested to be associated with liver cancer. To understand the role of nongenotoxic mechanism(s) for TCE action, we examined the gene expression and DNA methylation changes in the liver of B6C3F1 mice orally administered with TCE (0, 100, 500 and 1000 mg/kg b.w. per day) for 5 days. After 5 days TCE treatment at a dose level of 1000 mg/kg b.w., a total of 431 differentially expressed genes were identified in mouse liver by microarray, of which 291 were up-regulated and 140 down-regulated. The expression changed genes were involved in key signal pathways including PPAR, proliferation, apoptosis and homologous recombination. Notably, the expression level of a number of vital genes involved in the regulation of DNA methylation, such as Utrf1, Tet2, DNMT1, DNMT3a and DNMT3b, were dysregulated. Although global DNA methylation change was not detected in the liver of mice exposed to TCE, the promoter regions of Cdkn1a and Ihh were found to be hypo- and hypermethylated respectively, which correlated negatively with their mRNA expression changes. Furthermore, the gene expression and DNA methylation changes induced by TCE were dose dependent. The overall data indicate that TCE exposure leads to aberrant DNA methylation changes, which might alter the expression of genes involved in the TCE-induced liver tumorgenesis.
Background: Influenza A viruses (IAVs) are important pathogens that affect the health of humans and many additional animal species. IAVs are enveloped, negative single-stranded RNA viruses whose genome encodes at least ten proteins. The IAV nucleoprotein (NP) is a structural protein that associates with the viral RNA and is essential for virus replication. Understanding how IAVs interact with host proteins is essential for elucidating all of the required processes for viral replication, restrictions in species host range, and potential targets for antiviral therapies. Methods: In this study, the NP from a swine IAV was cloned into a yeast two-hybrid "bait" vector for expression of a yeast Gal4 binding domain (BD)-NP fusion protein. This "bait" was used to screen a Y2H human HeLa cell "prey" library which consisted of human proteins fused to the Gal4 protein's activation domain (AD). The interaction of "bait" and "prey" proteins resulted in activation of reporter genes. Results: Seventeen positive bait-prey interactions were isolated in yeast. All of the "prey" isolated also interact in yeast with a NP "bait" cloned from a human IAV strain. Isolation and sequence analysis of the cDNAs encoding the human prey proteins revealed ten different human proteins. These host proteins are involved in various host cell processes and structures, including purine biosynthesis (PAICS), metabolism (ACOT13), proteasome (PA28B), DNA-binding (MSANTD3), cytoskeleton (CKAP5), potassium channel formation (KCTD9), zinc transporter function (SLC30A9), Na+/K+ ATPase function (ATP1B1), and RNA splicing (TRA2B). Conclusions: Ten human proteins were identified as interacting with IAV NP in a Y2H screen. Some of these human proteins were reported in previous screens aimed at elucidating host proteins relevant to specific viral life cycle processes such as replication. This study extends previous findings by suggesting a mechanism by which these host proteins associate with the IAV, i.e., physical interaction with NP. Furthermore, this study revealed novel host protein-NP interactions in yeast.
Activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) initiates class switch recombination (CSR) and somatic hypermutation (SHM) by deaminating cytosine residues in immunoglobulin genes (Igh, Igκ, and Igλ). At a lower frequency, AID also causes collateral DNA damage at non-Ig loci, including genes that are rearranged or mutated in B-cell lymphoma. Precisely how AID is recruited to these off-target sites is not entirely understood. To gain further insight into how AID selects its targets, we compared AID-mediated translocations in two different cell types, B cells and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). AID targets a distinct set of hotspots in the two cell types. In both cases, hotspots are concentrated in highly transcribed but stalled genes. However, transcription alone is insufficient to recruit AID activity. Comparison of genes similarly transcribed in B cells and MEFs but targeted in only one of the two cell types reveals a common set of epigenetic features associated with AID recruitment in both cells. AID target genes are enriched in chromatin modifications associated with active enhancers (such as H3K27Ac) and marks of active transcription (such as H3K36me3) in both fibroblasts and B cells, indicating that these features are universal mediators of AID recruitment.
The human osteosarcoma cell line U2OS is useful for studying genome replication of human papillomavirus (HPVs) subtypes that belong to different phylogenetic genera. In this study, we defined the HPV18 transcription map in U2OS cells during transient replication, stable maintenance and vegetative amplification by identifying viral promoter regions, transcription polyadenylation and splicing sites during HPV18 genome replication. Mapping of the HPV18 transcription start sites in U2OS cells revealed five distinct promoter regions (P102, P520, P811, P1193 and P3000). With the exception of P3000, all of these regions have been previously identified during productive HPV18 infection. Collectively, the data suggest that U2OS cells are suitable for studying the replication and transcription properties of HPVs and to serve as a platform for conducting high-throughput drug screens to identify HPV replication inhibitors. In addition, we have identified mRNA species that are initiated from the promoter region P3000, which can encode two E2C regulator proteins that contain only the C-terminal hinge and DNA-binding and dimerization domains of E2. We show that these proteins regulate the initial amplification of HPV18 by modulating viral transcription. Moreover, we show that one of these proteins can act as a transcriptional activator of promoter P102.
The Lagovirus rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV), a member of the family Caliciviridae, severely affects European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) populations by causing rabbit hemorrhagic disease (RHD). RHDV is subdivided in six genogroups but, more recently, a new RHDV variant with a unique genetic and antigenic profile emerged. We performed a study in rabbits found dead in the field during 2013 and 2014 in Portugal to determine the prevalence of this new variant versus the classical RHDV. Fifty-seven liver samples were screened for the presence of RHDV and positive samples were genotyped. All cases of RHDV infection were caused by the new variant. The only former genogroup circulating in Portugal, G1, was not detected. We hence conclude that the new RHDV variant is replacing G1 in Portugal, probably due to a selective advantage. This sudden and rapid replacement emphasizes the necessity of continued monitoring of wild rabbit populations.
A series of 2-(1H-benzo[d]imidazol-1-yl)-N-4-aryl acetamides (11-20) were synthesized and evaluated to investigate their possible anti-HIV and antimicrobial activities. HIV-1 RT inhibitory activity was evaluated by using HIV-1 RT RNA-dependent DNA polymerase activity assay. Among these derivatives, compounds 12 and 20 were found to have reasonable HIV-1 RT inhibitory activity while the rest exhibited weak activity in comparison to the standard efavirenz. On the other hand, most of the test compounds were found to be significantly effective against gram positive bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus subtilis) and some gram-negative bacterial strains (E.coli, Salmonella typhi, Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa), among which compounds 12, 13, 17 and 19 sprouted out as the most effective antibacterials but less effective than the standard ciprofloxacin. In case of fungal strains like Candida albicans and Aspergillus niger, almost all the compounds were found to exhibit potency comparable or more than that of standard drug fluconazole except for the compound 11 which exhibited moderate to good activity against both the fungal strains. For a deep insight into the role of different functional groups at different positions of phenyl ring attached with the help of a linker group to the N-1 position of benzimidazole, structure activity relationship (SAR) study was carried out, which clearly states the importance of chloro and methyl groups in enhancing the antimicrobial activity. ADME prediction study also indicates the significant drug like properties of the derivatives.
Introduction: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) genome contains two envelope proteins (E1 and E2) responsible for the virus entry into the cell. There is a substantial lack of sequences covering the full length of E1/E2 region for genotype 4. Our study aims at providing new sequences as well as characterizing the genetic divergence of the E1/E2 region of HCV 4a using our new sequences along with all publicly available datasets. Methods: The genomic segments covering the whole E1/E2 region were isolated from Egyptian HCV patients and sequenced. The resulting 36 sequences 36 were analyzed using sequence analysis techniques to study variability within and among hosts in the same time point. Furthermore, previously published HCV E1/E2 sequence datasets for genotype 4a were retrieved and categorized according to the geographical location and date of isolation and were used for further analysis of variability among Egyptian over a period of 15 years, also compared with non-Egyptian sequences to figure out region-specific variability. Results: Phylogenetic analysis of the new sequences has shown variability within the host and among different individuals in the same time point. Analysis of the 36 sequences along with the Egyptian sequences (254 sequences in E1 in the period from 1997 to 2010 and 8 E2 sequences in the period from 2006 to 2010) has shown temporal change over time. Analysis of the new HCV sequences with the non-Egyptian sequences (182 sequences in E1 and 155 sequences in the E2) has shown region specific variability. The molecular clock rate of E1 was estimated to be 5E-3 per site per year for Egyptian and 5.38E-3 for non-Egyptian. The clock rate of E2 was estimated to be 8.48E per site per year for Egyptian and 6.3E-3 for non-Egyptian. Conclusion: The results of this study support the high rate of evolution of the Egyptian HCV genotype 4a. It has also revealed significant level of genetic variability among sequences from different regions in the world.
RT-qPCR is the accepted technique for the quantification of microRNA (miR) expression: however, stem-loop RT-PCR, the most frequently used method for quantification of miRs, is time- and reagent-consuming as well as inconvenient for scanning. We established a new method called 'universal stem-loop primer' (USLP) with 8 random nucleotides instead of a specific sequence at the 3′ end of the traditional stem-loop primer (TSLP), for screening miR profile and to semi-quantify expression of miRs. Peripheral blood samples were cultured with phytohaemagglutinin (PHA), and then 87 candidate miRs were scanned in cultured T cells. By USLP, our study revealed that the expression of miR-150-5p (miR-150) decreased nearly 10-fold, and miR-155-5p (miR-155) increased more than 7-fold after treated with PHA. The results of the dissociation curve and gel electrophoresis showed that the PCR production of the USLP and TSLP were specificity. The USLP method has high precision because of its low ICV (ICV<2.5%). The sensitivity of the USLP is up to 103 copies/μl miR. As compared with the TSLP, USLP saved 75% the cost of primers and 60% of the test time. The USLP method is a simple, rapid, precise, sensitive, and cost-effective approach that is suitable for screening miR profiles.
Stem cells are responsible for organogenesis, but it is largely unknown whether and how information from stem cells acts to direct organ patterning after organ primordia are formed. It has long been proposed that the stem cells at the plant shoot apex produce a signal, which promotes leaf adaxial-abaxial (dorsoventral) patterning. Here we show the existence of a transient low auxin zone in the adaxial domain of early leaf primordia. We also demonstrate that this adaxial low auxin domain contributes to leaf adaxial-abaxial patterning. The auxin signal is mediated by the auxin-responsive transcription factor MONOPTEROS (MP), whose constitutive activation in the adaxial domain promotes abaxial cell fate. Furthermore, we show that auxin flow from emerging leaf primordia to the shoot apical meristem establishes the low auxin zone, and that this auxin flow contributes to leaf polarity. Our results provide an explanation for the hypothetical meristem-derived leaf polarity signal. Opposite to the original proposal, instead of a signal derived from the meristem, we show that a signaling molecule is departing from the primordium to the meristem to promote robustness in leaf patterning.
Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) is known to play an important role in mediating myocardial ischemic/reperfusion (I/R) injury. Some previous studies have shown that atorvastatin alleviates myocardial I/R injury in animal models, but whether attenuation of ERS-induced apoptosis contributes to this effect remains to be elucidated. Therefore, in this study, we sought to investigate the modulatory effect of atorvastatin on myocardial I/R-induced ERS in rats. Myocardial I/R injury was induced in rats by occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) for 0.5 h followed by 2 h of reperfusion. Atorvastatin was administered at different dosages (10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, and 40 mg/kg) at the onset of reperfusion. The levels of the CK-MB and LDH were detected by ELISA. Myocardial ischemia and infarct size were evaluated by Evans blue and tetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) was used to investigate myocardial cell apoptosis. The expression levels of the genes encoding glucose-regulated protein-78 (GRP78, widely used as a marker of ERS), C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) and caspase-12 (widely used as markers of ERS-induced apoptosis) were assessed using RT-PCR. The expression levels of the ERS proteins GRP78, CHOP, caspase-12, c-Jun NH2 terminal kinase (JNK) and phosphorylated JNK (p-JNK) were detected by western blot. Our results showed that atorvastatin treatment (20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg) significantly reduced myocardial infarct size and myocardial cell apoptosis, and decreased the plasma levels of CK-MB and LDH in I/R rats. This treatment also significantly modulated mRNA and protein levels, specifically down-regulating GRP78, CHOP and caspase-12 expression along with JNK activation. These results suggest that the attenuation of ERS-induced apoptosis may be involved in the cardioprotective mechanisms of atorvastatin in myocardial I/R injury.
While available evidence supports the role of genetics in the pathogenesis of placental abruption (PA), PA-related placental genome variations and maternal-placental genetic interactions have not been investigated. Maternal blood and placental samples collected from participants in the Peruvian Abruptio Placentae Epidemiology study were genotyped using Illumina's Cardio-Metabochip platform. We examined 118,782 genome-wide SNPs and 333 SNPs in 32 candidate genes from mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative phosphorylation pathways in placental DNA from 280 PA cases and 244 controls. We assessed maternal-placental interactions in the candidate gene SNPS and two imprinted regions (IGF2/H19 and C19MC). Univariate and penalized logistic regression models were fit to estimate odds ratios. We examined the combined effect of multiple SNPs on PA risk using weighted genetic risk scores (WGRS) with repeated ten-fold cross-validations. A multinomial model was used to investigate maternal-placental genetic interactions. In placental genome-wide and candidate gene analyses, no SNP was significant after false discovery rate correction. The top genome-wide association study (GWAS) hits were rs544201, rs1484464 (CTNNA2), rs4149570 (TNFRSF1A) and rs13055470 (ZNRF3) (p-values: 1.11e-05 to 3.54e-05). The top 200 SNPs of the GWAS overrepresented genes involved in cell cycle, growth and proliferation. The top candidate gene hits were rs16949118 (COX10) and rs7609948 (THRB) (p-values: 6.00e-03 and 8.19e-03). Participants in the highest quartile of WGRS based on cross-validations using SNPs selected from the GWAS and candidate gene analyses had a 8.40-fold (95% CI: 5.8-12.56) and a 4.46-fold (95% CI: 2.94-6.72) higher odds of PA compared to participants in the lowest quartile. We found maternal-placental genetic interactions on PA risk for two SNPs in PPARG (chr3:12313450 and chr3:12412978) and maternal imprinting effects for multiple SNPs in the C19MC and IGF2/H19 regions. Variations in the placental genome and interactions between maternal-placental genetic variations may contribute to PA risk. Larger studies may help advance our understanding of PA pathogenesis.
Objective: This study aims to investigate the effect of captopril and losartan on the electrophysiology of myocardial cells parameters in ventricular vulnerable period and effective refractory period of myocardial ischemia rats. Methods: 96 wistar rats were enrolled in the study and divided into six groups: Captopril myocardial ischemia group, losartan myocardial ischemia group, myocardial ischemia control group, captopril normal group, losartan normal group and normal control group (n=16). We observed morphological changes of myocardial tissue in each group. The cardiac electrophysiological parameters in effective refractory period of each group were measured. Creatine kinase (CK), alanine aminotransferase (GOT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), the expression of Cardiotrophin 1 (CT-1) and malonaldehyde (MDA) were detected. Results: Compared the losartan and captopril group with the control group, (P<0.05). Losartan and captopril can shorten the ventricular vulnerable period of the normal group and ischemic group. There was no interaction effect between losartan and captopril group and the acute myocardial ischemia group. The effect of losartan and captopril on time window in ventricular vulnerable period showed that compared with the control group (P<0.05). Losartan and captopril had a significant effect on prolonged effective refractory period of normal and ischemic rats. There was no interaction effect between losartan and captopril group and the acute myocardial ischemia group. Compared with the myocardial ischemia control group, CK, GOT, LDH and MDA decreased in captopril and losartan myocardial ischemia groups (P<0.05). Conclusion: Losartan and captopril had a significant effect on prolonged effective refractory period and shorten ventricular vulnerable period, they can also effectively prevent arrhythmias.
Objective: The objective of this study is to review clinical outcomes of recommendations made by a multidisciplinary paediatric virtual clinic (PVC) for complex case management of paediatric HIV as a model of care within a tertiary network. Design: A retrospective review of the clinical outcomes of paediatric and adolescent (0-21 years) referrals to the PVC at St. Mary's Hospital, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London was performed between October 2009 and November 2013. Results: 234 referrals were made for 182 children from 37 centres, discussed in 42 meetings (median age 13 years, IQR 10-15 years). Reasons for referral included virological failure (44%), simplification of the current regimen (24%) and antiretroviral drug complications (24%). At latest follow-up, PVC advice had been instituted in 80% of referrals. Suppression following virological failure was achieved in 48% following first referral and 57% following subsequent discussions and was maintained in 95% of children referred for regimen simplification. Following advice, dyslipidaemia resolved in 42% and liver function normalised in 73% with biochemical hepatitis. Adherence support aided resolution of viraemia in nine children and 12% of referrals resulted in additional support, including psychology, social services and mental health input. Conclusions: Combined multidisciplinary virtual input with adult expertise in resistance and newer agents, paediatric knowledge of pill swallowing, childhood formulations/weight banding and parental support, assists complex treatment decision making in paediatric HIV infection. The Virtual Clinic model could be applied to the management of other rare complex diseases of childhood within a clinical network.
Plant biomass degradation in soil is one of the key steps of carbon cycling in terrestrial ecosystems. Fungal saprotrophic communities play an essential role in this process by producing hydrolytic enzymes active on the main components of plant organic matter. Open questions in this field regard the diversity of the species involved, the major biochemical pathways implicated and how these are affected by external factors such as litter quality or climate changes. This can be tackled by environmental genomic approaches involving the systematic sequencing of key enzyme-coding gene families using soil-extracted RNA as material. Such an approach necessitates the design and evaluation of gene family-specific PCR primers producing sequence fragments compatible with high-throughput sequencing approaches. In the present study, we developed and evaluated PCR primers for the specific amplification of fungal CAZy Glycoside Hydrolase gene families GH5 (subfamily 5) and GH11 encoding endo-β-1,4-glucanases and endo-β-1,4-xylanases respectively as well as Basidiomycota class II peroxidases, corresponding to the CAZy Auxiliary Activity family 2 (AA2), active on lignin. These primers were experimentally validated using DNA extracted from a wide range of Ascomycota and Basidiomycota species including 27 with sequenced genomes. Along with the published primers for Glycoside Hydrolase GH7 encoding enzymes active on cellulose, the newly design primers were shown to be compatible with the Illumina MiSeq sequencing technology. Sequences obtained from RNA extracted from beech or spruce forest soils showed a high diversity and were uniformly distributed in gene trees featuring the global diversity of these gene families. This high-throughput sequencing approach using several degenerate primers constitutes a robust method, which allows the simultaneous characterization of the diversity of different fungal transcripts involved in plant organic matter degradation and may lead to the discovery of complex patterns in gene expression of soil fungal communities.
Melanocytes possess several functions besides a role in pigment synthesis, but detailed characteristics of the cells are still unclear. We used whole transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq) to assess differential gene expression of cultivated normal human melanocytes with respect to keratinocytes, fibroblasts and whole skin. The present results reveal cultivated melanocytes as highly proliferative cells with possible stem cell-like properties. The enhanced readiness to regenerate makes melanocytes the most vulnerable cells in the skin and explains their high risk of developing into malignant melanoma.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is one of the most common inherited diseases of the skeletal muscle. It is characterized by asymmetric muscle weakness and variable penetrance. FSHD is linked to a reduction in copy number of the D4Z4 3.3 kb macrosatellite repeat, located in 4q35. This causes the epigenetic de-repression of FSHD candidate genes leading to disease. Nevertheless, the molecular mechanism responsible for silencing of FSHD candidate genes in healthy subjects is not fully understood. While a role for DNA methylation has been suggested, so far there is limited information regarding the methylation status of the 325 CpGs contained in each D4Z4 unit. Using a human/rodent monochromosomal hybrid cell line containing a single human chromosome 4, we performed an in depth analysis of DNA methylation for the majority of the CpGs inside D4Z4 at single nucleotide level. We found that D4Z4 is not uniformly methylated and that the level of DNA methylation does not correlate with the density of CpG dinucleotides. Moreover, in several D4Z4 regions characterized by near complete methylation, we found specific unmethylated CpGs. These elements are enriched in transcription factor binding sites that could be involved in musclespecific D4Z4 activity. Our approach also detected differential methylation among different D4Z4 units, suggesting that the D4Z4 array is a mosaic of euchromatic and heterochromatic domains. Finally, we found that DNA methylation and histone deacetylation are required to maintain FSHD candidate genes repressed. Taken together, our data underscore new players involved in the epigenetic regulation of the FSHD locus that could be targeted for therapeutic purposes.
; licensee BioMed Central. We present the whole genome sequence and annotation of the Coxiella burnetii strain Namibia. This strain was isolated from an aborting goat in 1991 in Windhoek, Namibia. The plasmid type QpRS was confirmed in our work. Further genomic typing placed the strain into a unique genomic group. The genome sequence is 2,101,438 bp long and contains 1,979 protein-coding and 51 RNA genes, including one rRNA operon. To overcome the poor yield from cell culture systems, an additional DNA enrichment with whole genome amplification (WGA) methods was applied. We describe a bioinformatics pipeline for improved genome assembly including several filters with a special focus on WGA characteristics.
The biofilm matrix of the rhizospheric bacterium Pseudomonas putida consists mainly of a proteinaceous component. The two largest P. putida proteins, adhesins LapA and LapF, are involved in biofilm development but prevail in different developmental stages of the biofilm matrix. LapA is abundant in the initial stage of biofilm formation whereas LapF is found in the mature biofilm. Although the transcriptional regulation of the adhesins is not exhaustively studied, some factors that can be involved in their regulation have been described. For example, RpoS, the major stress response sigma factor, activates, and Fis represses LapF expression. This study focused on the LapF expression control by Fis. Indeed, using DNase I footprint analysis a Fis binding site Fis-F2 was located 150 bp upstream of the lapF gene coding sequence. The mapped 5′ end of the lapF mRNA localized the promoter to the same region, overlapping with the Fis binding site Fis- F2. Monitoring the lapF promoter activity by a β-galactosidase assay revealed that Fis overexpression causes a 4-fold decrease in the transcriptional activity. Furthermore, mutations that diminished Fis binding to the Fis-F2 site abolished the repression of the lapF promoter. Thus, these data suggest that Fis is involved in the biofilm regulation via repression of LapF expression.
Pancreatic lipase plays a key role in intestinal digestion of feed fat, and is often deficient in young animals such as weaning piglets. The objective of this study was to express and characterize a partial codon optimized porcine pancreatic lipase (opPPL). A 537 bp cDNA fragment encoding N-terminus amino acid residue of the mature porcine pancreatic lipase was synthesized according to the codon bias of Pichia pastoris and ligated to the full-length porcine pancreatic lipase cDNA fragment. The codon optimized PPL was cloned into the pPICZaA (Invitrogen, Beijing, China) vector. After the resultant opPPL/pPICZ aA plasmid was transformed into P.pastoris, the over-expressed extracellular opPPL containing a His-tag to the C terminus was purified using Ni Sepharose affinity column (GE Healthcare, Piscataway, NJ, USA), and was characterized against the native enzyme (commercial PPL from porcine pancreas, Sigma). The opPPL exhibited a molecular mass of approximately 52 kDa, and showed optimal temperature (40°C), optimal pH (8.0), Km (0.041 mM), and Vmax (2.008 μmol.mg protein -1.min-1) similar to those of the commercial enzyme with p-NPP as the substrate. The recombinant enzyme was stable at 60°C, but lost 80% (P<0.05) of its activity after exposure to heat ≥60°C for 20 min. The codon optimization increased opPPL yield for ca 4 folds (146 mg.L-1 vs 36 mg.L-1) and total enzyme activity increased about 5 folds (1900 IU.L-1 vs 367 IU.L-1) compared with those native naPPL/pPICZaA tranformant. Comparison of gene copies and mRNA profiles between the two strains indicated the increased rePPL yields may partly be ascribed to the increased protein translational efficiency after codon optimization. In conclusion, we successfully optimized 5-terminal of porcine pancreatic lipase encoding gene and over-expressed the gene in P. pastoris as an extracellular, functional enzyme. The recombination enzyme demonstrates a potential for future use as an animal feed additive for animal improvement.
Molecular signatures in Glioblastoma (GBM) have been described that correlate with clinical outcome and response to therapy. The Proneural (PN) and Mesenchymal (MES) signatures have been identified most consistently, but others including Classical (CLAS) have also been reported. The molecular signatures have been detected by array techniques at RNA and DNA level, but these methods are costly and cannot take into account individual contributions of different cells within a tumor. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate whether subclasses of newly diagnosed GBMs could be assessed and assigned by application of standard pathology laboratory procedures. 123 newly diagnosed GBMs were analyzed for the tumor cell expression of 23 pre-identified proteins and EGFR amplification, together allowing for the subclassification of 65% of the tumors. Immunohistochemistry (IHC)-based profiling was found to be analogous to transcription-based profiling using a 9-gene transcriptional signature for PN and MES subclasses. Based on these data a novel, minimal IHC-based scheme for subclass assignment for GBMs is proposed. Positive staining for IDH1R132H can be used for PN subclass assignment, high EGFR expression for the CLAS subtype and a combined high expression of PTEN, VIM and/or YKL40 for the MES subclass. The application of the proposed scheme was evaluated in an independent tumor set, which resulted in similar subclass assignment rates as those observed in the training set. The IHC-based subclassification scheme proposed in this study therefore could provide very useful in future studies for stratification of individual patient samples.
Background: Ulcerative colitis (UC) is associated with differential colonic expression of genes involved in immune response (e.g. IL8) and barrier integrity (e.g. cadherins). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are regulators of gene expression and are involved in various immune-related diseases. In this study, we investigated (1) if miRNA expression in UC mucosa is altered and (2) if any of these changes correlate with mucosal mRNA expression. Integration of mRNA and miRNA expression profiling may allow the identification of functional links between dysregulated miRNAs and their target mRNA. Methodology: Colonic mucosal biopsies were obtained from 17 UC (10 active and 7 inactive) patients and 10 normal controls. Total RNA was used to analyze miRNA and mRNA expression via Affymetrix miRNA 2.0 and Affymetrix Human Gene 1.0ST arrays, respectively. Both miRNA and gene expression profiles were integrated by correlation analysis to identify dysregulated miRNAs with their corresponding predicted target mRNA. Microarray data were validated with qRTPCR. Regulation of IL8 and CDH11 expression by hsa-miR-200c-3p was determined by luciferase reporter assays. Results: When comparing active UC patients vs. controls, 51 miRNAs and 1543 gene probe sets gave significantly different signals. In contrast, in inactive UC vs. controls, no significant miRNA expression differences were found while 155 gene probe sets had significantly different signals. We then identified potential target genes of the significantly dysregulated miRNAs and genes in active UC vs. controls and found a highly significant inverse correlation between hsa-miR-200c-3p and IL8, an inflammatory marker, and between hsa-miR-200c-3p and CDH11, a gene related to intestinal epithelial barrier function. We could demonstrate that hsa-miR-200c-3p directly regulates IL8 and CDH11 expression. Conclusion: Differential expression of immune- and barrier-related genes in inflamed UC mucosa may be influenced by altered expression of miRNAs. Integrated analysis of miRNA and mRNA expression profiles revealed hsa-miR-200c-3p for use of miRNA mimics as therapeutics.
HIV infection by sexual transmission remains an enormous global health concern. More than 1 million new infections among women occur annually. Microbicides represent a promising prevention strategy that women can easily control. Among emerging therapies, natural small molecules such as flavonoids are an important source of new active substances. In this study we report the in vitro cytotoxicity and anti-HIV-1 and microbicide activity of the following flavonoids: Myricetin, Quercetin and Pinocembrin. Cytotoxicity tests were conducted on TZM-bl, HeLa, PBMC, and H9 cell cultures using 0.01-100 μM concentrations. Myricetin presented the lowest toxic effect, with Quercetin and Pinocembrin relatively more toxic. The anti-HIV-1 activity was tested with TZM-bl cell plus HIV-1 BaL (R5 tropic), H9 and PBMC cells plus HIV-1 MN (X4 tropic), and the dual tropic (X4R5) HIV-1 89.6. All flavonoids showed anti-HIV activity, although Myricetin was more effective than Quercetin or Pinocembrin. In TZM-bl cells, Myricetin inhibited ≥90% of HIV-1 BaL infection. The results were confirmed by quantification of HIV-1 p24 antigen in supernatant from H9 and PBMC cells following flavonoid treatment. In H9 and PBMC cells infected by HIV-1 MN and HIV-1 89.6, Myricetin showed more than 80% anti-HIV activity. Quercetin and Pinocembrin presented modest anti-HIV activity in all experiments. Myricetin activity was tested against HIV-RT and inhibited the enzyme by 49%. Microbicide activities were evaluated using a dual-chamber female genital tract model. In the in vitro microbicide activity model, Myricetin showed promising results against different strains of HIV-1 while also showing insignificant cytotoxic effects. Further studies of Myricetin should be performed to identify its molecular targets in order to provide a solid biological foundation for translational research.
The Generation R Study is a population-based prospective cohort study from fetal life until adulthood. The study is designed to identify early environmental and genetic causes and causal pathways leading to normal and abnormal growth, development and health from fetal life, childhood and young adulthood. In total, 9,778 mothers were enrolled in the study. Data collection in children and their parents include questionnaires, interviews, detailed physical and ultrasound examinations, behavioural observations, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and biological samples. Efforts have been conducted for collecting biological samples including blood, hair, faeces, nasal swabs, saliva and urine samples and generating genomics data on DNA, RNA and microbiome. In this paper, we give an update of the collection, processing and storage of these biological samples and available measures. Together with detailed phenotype measurements, these biological samples provide a unique resource for epidemiological studies focused on environmental exposures, genetic and genomic determinants and their interactions in relation to growth, health and development from fetal life onwards.
To minimize the systemic toxicity prevalent to chemotherapeutics, we designed a novel anticancer drug-encapsulating liposome conjugated with an RNA aptamer specific to the prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA), which is expressed on the surface of prostate cancer cells. The RNA aptamer-conjugated liposome, termed an aptamosome, was prepared by the post-insertion method, in which RNA aptamer-conjugated micelles were inserted into a liposome. These nanosized (90-100 nm) aptamer-conjugated liposomes specifically bind to LNCaP prostate epithelial cells that express PSMA and thus cause the nanoparticles to have significantly enhanced in vitro cellular binding and uptake as compared with nontargeted nanoparticles that lack the PSMA aptamer. Aptamosomes encapsulated with the anticancer drug doxorubicin (Dox) were significantly more toxic to the targeted LNCaP cells than to nontargeted cancer cells. Dox-encapsulating aptamosomes administered to LNCaP xenograft nude mice were selectively retained in tumor tissue. We also demonstrated in vivo anticancer efficacy of the Dox-encapsulating PSMA-aptamosomes on tumor size regression in LNCaP xenograft mice. We suggest that the encapsulation of toxic chemicals with aptamer-conjugated liposomes will enable the use of these bioconjugates in clinical practice with fewer side effects.
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is an emerging technique to induce cancer cell death. However, the tumor specificity, cellular uptake and biodistribution of many photosensitizers urgently need to be improved. In this regard, we show here that the integrated nanoassemblies based on G-quadruplex DNAs (GQDs)/protoporphyrin IX (PPIX) can serve as a synergistic platform for targeted high-performance PDT. In the nanoassemblies, GQDs function as carriers of sensitiser PPIX and confers the system cancer cell targeting ability. After nucleolin-mediated efficient binding and cellular uptake of GQDs/PPIX assemblies, the strong red fluorescence of GQDs/PPIX complex provides a powerful tool for biological imaging. Moreover, the reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by GQDs/PPIX under light illumination can effectively kill cancer cells. The present approach is simply composed by DNA and photosensitizers, thereby avoiding any complicated and time-consuming covalent modification or chemical labeling procedure.
An increase in the incidence of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) was observed in several population-based registries and has been attributed to human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. In the present study, we aimed to assess the contribution of HPV infection to the burden of mucosal head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) in Slovenia. For this purpose, data from the nationwide Cancer Registry of Slovenia for cases diagnosed between 1983 and 2009 were analyzed to determine time trends of age-adjusted incidence rates and survival in terms of annual percentage change (APC) for HNSCC in potentially HPV-related and HPV-unrelated sites. In addition, determination of p16 protein, HPV DNA and E6/E7 mRNA was performed in a cohort of OPSCC patients identified from the prospective database for the years 2007–2008. In total, 2,862 cases of HNSCC in potentially HPV-related sites and 7,006 cases in potentially HPV-unrelated sites were identified with decreased incidence observed over the time period in both groups (−0.58; 95 % CI −1.28 to −0.13 and −0.90; 95 % CI −1.23 to −0.57). Regardless of the group, incidence trends for both genders showed a significant decrease in men and increase in women. In a cohort of 99 OPSCC patients diagnosed between 2007 and 2008, 20 (20.2 %) patients had HPV positive tumors and exhibited a superior outcome compared to HPV-negative patients. In conclusion, results of the epidemiologic and histopathologic study confirmed that HPV infection had no major impact on the incidence trends in the Slovenian patients with HNSCC and, specifically, OPSCC during the studied period.
Background: Cdc7 kinase and protein phosphatase 2A are important in DNA replication initiation.Results: DNA unwinding element (DUE)-binding protein (DUE-B) is an essential replication factor that is regulated by Cdc7 and PP2A.Conclusion: The phosphorylation of DUE-B determines its ability to bind the minichromosome maintenance helicase and regulate Cdc45 chromatin loading.Significance: PP2A and Cdc7 regulate DUE-B mediated loading of Cdc45 to the prereplication complex.
The apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1/redox effector factor 1 (APE1/Ref-1) is a multifunctional enzyme involved in DNA repair and activation of transcription factors through its redox function. The evolutionarily conserved C- and N-termini are involved in these functions independently. It is also reported that the activity of APE1/Ref-1 abruptly increases several-fold in various human cancers. The control over the outcomes of these two functions is emerging as a new strategy to combine enhanced DNA damage and chemotherapy in order to tackle the major hurdle of increased cancer cell growth and proliferation. Studies have targeted these two domains individually for the design and development of inhibitors for APE1/Ref-1. Here, we have made, for the first time, an attempt at a comparative analysis of APE1/Ref-1 inhibitors that target both DNA repair and redox activities simultaneously. We further discuss their scope and limitations with respect to the development of potential anticancer agents.
The gas-phase structures of protonated 2′-deoxyguanosine, [dGuo+H]+, and its RNA analogue protonated guanosine, [Guo+H]+, are investigated by infrared multiple photon dissociation (IRMPD) action spectroscopy and theoretical electronic structure calculations. IRMPD action spectra are measured over the range extending from ∼550 to 1900 cm-1 using the FELIX free electron laser and from ∼2800 to 3800 cm-1 using an optical parametric oscillator/amplifier (OPO/OPA) laser system. The measured IRMPD spectra of [dGuo+ H]+ and [Guo+ H]+ are compared to each other and to B3LYP/6-311+G(d,p) linear IR spectra predicted for the stable low-energy conformations computed for these species to determine the most favorable site of protonation, identify the structures accessed in the experiments, and elucidate the influence of the 2′-hydroxyl substituent on the structures and the IRMPD spectral features. Theoretical energetics and the measured IRMPD spectra find that N7 protonation is preferred for both [dGuo+H]+ and [Guo+H]+, whereas O6 and N3 protonated conformers are found to be much less stable. The 2′-hydroxyl substituent does not exert a significant influence on the structures and relative stabilities of the stable lowenergy conformations of [dGuo+H]+ versus [Guo+H]+ but does provide additional opportunities for hydrogen bonding such that more low-energy structures are found for [Guo+H]+. [dGuo+H]+ and [Guo+H]+ share very parallel IRMPD spectral features in the FELIX and OPO regions, whereas the effect of the 2′-hydroxyl substituent is primarily seen in the relative intensities of the measured IR bands. The measured OPO/OPA spectral signatures, primarily reflecting the IR features associated with the O -H and N-H stretches, provide complementary information to that of the FELIX region and enable the conformers that arise from different protonation sites to be more readily distinguished. Insight gained from this and parallel studies of other DNA and RNA nucleosides and nucleotides should help better elucidate the effects of the local environment on the overall structures of DNA and RNA. (Graph Presented).
Heat shock proteins (HSPs) consist of a large group of chaperones whose expression is induced by high temperature, hypoxia, infection and a number of other stresses. Among all the HSPs, Hsp40 is the largest HSP family, which bind to Hsp70 ATPase domain in assisting protein folding. In this study, we identified 57 hsp40s in channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) through in silico analysis using RNA-Seq and genome databases. These genes can be classified into three different types, Type I, II and III, based on their structural similarities. Phylogenetic and syntenic analyses provided strong evidence in supporting the orthologies of these HSPs. Meta-analyses of RNA-Seq datasets were conducted to analyze expression profile of Hsp40s following bacterial infection. Twenty seven hsp40s were found to be significantly up- or down-regulated in the liver after infection with E. ictaluri; 19 hsp40s were found to be significantly regulated in the intestine after infection with E. ictaluri; and 19 hsp40s were found to be significantly regulated in the gill following infection with F. columnare. Altogether, a total of 42 Hsp40 genes were regulated under disease situations involving three tissues and two bacterial infections. The significant regulated expression of Hsp40 genes after bacterial infection suggested their involvement in disease defenses in catfish.
Cytoplasmic constitutive active/androstane receptor (CAR) retention protein (CCRP and also known as DNAJC7) is a co-chaperone previously characterized to retain nuclear receptor CAR in the cytoplasm of HepG2 cells. Here we have produced CCRP knockout (KO) mice and demonstrated that CCRP regulates CAR at multiple steps in activation of the cytochrome (Cyp) 2b10 gene in liver: nuclear accumulation, RNA polymerase II recruitment and epigenetic modifications. Phenobarbital treatment greatly increased nuclear CAR accumulation in the livers of KO males as compared to those of wild type (WT) males. Despite this accumulation, phenobarbital-induced activation of the Cyp2b10 gene was significantly attenuated. In ChIP assays, a CAR/retinoid X receptor-α (RXRα) heterodimer binding to the Cyp2b10 promoter was already increased before phenobarbital treatment and further pronounced after treatment. However, RNA polymerase II was barely recruited to the promoter even after phenobarbital treatment. Histone H3K27 on the Cyp2b10 promoter was de-methylated only after phenobarbital treatment in WT but was fully de-methylated before treatment in KO males. Thus, CCRP confers phenobarbital-induced de-methylation capability to the promoter as well as the phenobarbital responsiveness of recruiting RNA polymerase II, but is not responsible for the binding between CAR and its cognate sequence, phenobarbital responsive element module. In addition, KO males developed steatotic livers and increased serum levels of total cholesterol and high density lipoprotein in response to fasting. CCRP appears to be involved in various hepatic regulations far beyond CAR-mediated drug metabolism.
We report herein a label-free, salt-enabled visual detection strategy for DNA, based on the alteration of surface adhesion properties of salt solution, which can translate to the change in the size of the salt residue upon drying, with self-assembled DNA nanostructures. This environmentally friendly array assay protocol enables the achievement of a detection sensitivity comparable to classic colorimetric methods, single-base mismatch differentiation selectivity, multiple-target detection capability, RNA target detection, and a ligase chain reaction-rolling circle amplification implementation format.
Ellipticine is a DNA-damaging agent acting as a prodrug whose pharmacological efficiencies and genotoxic side effects are dictated by activation with cytochrome P450 (CYP). Over the last decade we have gained extensive experience in using pure enzymes and various animal models that helped to identify CYPs metabolizing ellipticine. In this review we focus on comparison between the in vitro and in vivo studies and show a necessity of both approaches to obtain valid information on CYP enzymes contributing to ellipticine metabolism. Discrepancies were found between the CYP enzymes activating ellipticine to 13-hydroxy- and 12-hydroxyellipticine generating covalent DNA adducts and those detoxifying this drug to 9-hydroxy- and 7-hydroellipticine in vitro and in vivo. In vivo, formation of ellipticine-DNA adducts is dependent not only on expression levels of CYP3A, catalyzing ellipticine activation in vitro, but also on those of CYP1A that oxidize ellipticine in vitro mainly to the detoxification products. The finding showing that cytochrome b5 alters the ratio of ellipticine metabolites generated by CYP1A1/2 and 3A4 explained this paradox. Whereas the detoxification of ellipticine by CYP1A and 3A is either decreased or not changed by cytochrome b5, activation leading to ellipticine-DNA adducts increased considerably. We show that (I) the pharmacological effects of ellipticine mediated by covalent ellipticine-derived DNA adducts are dictated by expression levels of CYP1A, 3A and cytochrome b5, and its own potency to induce these enzymes in tumor tissues, (II) animal models, where levels of CYPs are either knocked out or induced are appropriate to identify CYPs metabolizing ellipticine in vivo, and (III) extrapolation from in vitro data to the situation in vivo is not always possible, confirming the need for these animal models.
Methanotrophs could degrade methane and various chlorinated hydrocarbons. The analysis on methane monooxygenase gene cluster sequence would help to understand its catalytic mechanism and enhance the application in pollutants biodegradation. The methanotrophs was enriched and isolated with methane as the sole carbon source in the nitrate mineral salt medium. Then, five chlorinated hydrocarbons were selected as cometabolic substrates to study the biodegradation. The phylogenetic tree of 16S rDNA using MEGE5.05 software was constructed to identify the methanotroph strain. The pmoCAB gene cluster encoding particulate methane monooxygenase (pMMO) was amplified by semi-nested PCR in segments. ExPASy was performed to analyze theoretical molecular weight of the three pMMO subunits. As a result, a strain of methanotroph was isolated. The phylogenetic analysis indicated that the strain belongs to a species of Methylocystis, and it was named as Methylocystis sp. JTC3. The degradation rate of trichloroethylene (TCE) reached 93.79% when its initial concentration was 15.64 μmol/L after 5 days. We obtained the pmoCAB gene cluster of 3 227 bp including pmoC gene of 771 bp, pmoA gene of 759 bp, pmoB gene of 1 260 bp and two noncoding sequences in the middle by semi-nested PCR, T-A cloning and sequencing. The theoretical molecular weight of their corresponding gamma, beta and alpha subunit were 29.1 kDa, 28.6 kDa and 45.6 kDa respectively analyzed using ExPASy tool. The pmoCAB gene cluster of JTC3 was highly identical with that of Methylocystis sp. strain M analyzed by Blast, and pmoA sequences is more conservative than pmoC and pmoB. Finally, Methylocystis sp. JTC3 could degrade TCE efficiently. And the detailed analysis of pmoCAB from Methylocystis sp. JTC3 laid a solid foundation to further study its active sites features and its selectivity to chlorinated hydrocarbon.
Background: Mitochondrial DNA mutations may be associated with cardiovascular disease, including the common cardiac vascular disease, hypertension. Methods: In this study we performed segregation analysis and systematically evaluated the entire mitochondrial genome in nine maternally inherited hypertension probands from Chinese Han families. We also performed clinical, genetic and molecular characterization of 74 maternally inherited members from these families and 216 healthy controls. Results: In the maternally inherited members, 12 had coronary heart disease (CHD), six had cerebrovascular disease, five had diabetes, nine had hyperlipidemia and three had renal disease. Laboratory tests showed that the sodium and potassium levels in blood of the maternally inherited members were higher than those of the control group (P < 0.01), while no differences were observed in fasting blood glucose (FBG), total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride, low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c) and creatinine levels (P > 0.05). The high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c) level of the maternally inherited members was lower than that of the control group (P = 0.04). The whole mitochondrial DNA sequence analysis revealed a total of 172 base changes, including 17 in ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes, four in transfer RNA (tRNA) genes, and 22 amino acid substitutions. The remainder were synonymous changes or were located in non-coding regions. We identified seven amino acid changes in the nine maternally inherited hypertension families, including four mutations in ATPase6 and three in Cytb. More interestingly, tRNASer (UCN) 7492 T > C was absent in controls and was present in <1% of 2704 mtDNAs, indicating potential functional significance. Conclusions: This study showed that mutations in mtDNA may contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension in these Chinese Han families. In the near future, identification of additional mtDNA mutations may indicate further candidate genes for hypertension.
; licensee BioMed Central. Background: Hepatitis E virus (HEV) has been reported in the human population and pigs are a recognized reservoir for HEV and a possible source of HEV transmission to humans. Spray-dried porcine plasma (SDPP) is an ingredient commonly used in feed for pigs around the world. Even though processing conditions used to produce SDPP should be adequate to inactivate HEV, it was of interest to analyze commercial SDPP samples for presence of genome and antibodies (AB) against HEV and to retrospectively analyze serum samples collected from pigs used in past experiments that had been fed diets containing either 0% or 8% SDPP to detect potential transmission of HEV as determined by seroconversion. Results: Eighty-five commercial SDPP samples were analyzed by ELISA and 100% of them contained AB against HEV, while 22.4% (11 of 49 samples analyzed) were positive for HEV RNA. Frozen sera samples (n = 140) collected from 70 pigs used in past experiments that had been fed diets containing either 0% or 8% commercial SDPP was analyzed by ELISA for AB against HEV. Age of pigs at sera sampling ranged from 3 to 15 weeks and feeding duration of diets ranged from approximately 4 to 9 weeks. One lot of SDPP used in one experiment was analyzed and confirmed to contain HEV RNA. Regardless of the diet fed, some sera samples collected at the beginning of an experiment contained AB titer against HEV. These sera samples were collected from weaned pigs prior to feeding of the experimental diets and the HEV titer was probably from maternal origin. However, by the end of the experiments, HEV titer was not detected or had declined by more than 50% of the initial titer concentration. Conclusions: To our knowledge, this is the first study reporting presence of HEV AB titer and RNA in SDPP. Retrospective analysis of serum collected from pigs fed diets with SDPP revealed no indication of seroconversion to HEV. The results indicate that feeding SDPP in diets for pigs does not represent a risk of transmitting HEV, even though HEV genome may be detected in SDPP.
Background: With the clinical development of several antiviral intervention strategies for influenza, it becomes crucial to explore viral load shedding in the nasal cavity as a biomarker for treatment success, but also to explore sampling strategies for sensible and reliable virus collection. Findings: In this study, 244 patients suffering from Influenza like Illness and/or acute respiratory tract infection were enrolled. Sampling was done using mid-turbinate flocked swabs and two swabs per patient were collected (one swab per nostril). The influenza A viral loads of two mid-turbinate flocked swabs (one for each nostril) per patient were compared and we have also assessed whether normalization for human cellular DNA in the swabs could be useful. The Influenza mid-turbinate nasal swab testing resulted in considerable sampling variability that could not be normalized against co-isolated human cellular DNA. Conclusions: Influenza viral load monitoring in nasal swabs could be very valuable as virological endpoints in clinical trials to monitor treatment efficacy, in analogy to HIV, HBV & HCV viral load monitoring. However, the differences between left and right nostrils, as observed in this study, highlight the importance of proper sampling and the need for standardized sampling procedures.
Continuous intra and extracellular stresses induce disorder of Ca2+ homeostasis and accumulation of unfolded protein in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), which results in ER stress. Severe long-term ER stress triggers apoptosis signaling pathways, resulting in cell death. Neural epidermal growth factor-like like protein 2 (NELL2) has been reported to be important in protection of cells from cell death-inducing environments. In this study, we investigated the cytoprotective effect of NELL2 in the context of ER stress induced by thapsigargin, a strong ER stress inducer, in Cos7 cells. Overexpression of NELL2 prevented ER stress-mediated apoptosis by decreasing expression of ER stress-induced C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) and increasing ER chaperones. In this context, expression of anti-apoptotic Bcl-xL was increased by NELL2, whereas NELL2 decreased expression of pro-apoptotic proteins, such as cleaved caspases 3 and 7. This antiapoptotic effect of NELL2 is likely mediated by extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling, because its inhibitor, U0126, inhibited effects of NELL2 on the expression of anti-and pro-apoptotic proteins and on the protection from ER stress-induced cell death.
; licensee BioMed Central.Background: With the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), HIV infection has become a chronic condition in children with improved survival and quality of life. Reports on long term effectiveness of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor based HAART in HIV-infected children in developing countries are limited. Methods: A chart review was conducted and children who received at least six months of HAART between 2004-2011 at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi were included. The clinical, immunological and virological responses to HAART were documented. Factors predicting non-adherence and non-response to treatment were described. Results: One seventy five children (boys: 74.9%) were included in the study, with a median follow up of 43 (IQR:17, 68) months. The median age at diagnosis was 119 (IQR: 75, 156) months. The median CD4 count at start of HAART was 340 cells/μL (IQR: 185,704), which increased to 924 cells/μL (IQR:591,1278) at 48 months after HAART and plateaued at 749 (IQR: 542,1056) cells/ μL after 90 months of therapy. The weight for age (WAZ) and height for age (HAZ) z score both showed improvement with time after HAART initiation [baseline: WAZ -2.8 (IQR:-4,-1.6), HAZ -2.1 (IQR:-3.4,-0.69); at 42 months of therapy: WAZ -1.2 (IQR:-2.1, 0.01), HAZ -0.75(IQR:-1.6,-0.37)]. Adverse events were reported in 21 (12%) children. Non-adherence to therapy, treatment failure and death were noted in 35 (20%), 9 (5.1%) and 6 (3.4%) children respectively. Conclusions: Our experience shows that HAART in HIV-infected children is effective, safe and is associated with good immunological and virological response as well as improvement in growth parameters.
Background: Safety of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (TDF-FTC) has been studied more extensively among HIV-infected patients than among HIV-uninfected people. Using data from a pre-exposure trial - FEM-PrEP -, we determined the cumulative probabilities of grade 1+ ALT, AST and creatinine and grade 2+ phosphorus toxicities; ALT/AST toxicities by baseline hepatitis B status; and change in mean creatinine, phosphorus, ALT and AST levels controlling for TDF-FTC adherence. Methods and findings: FEM-PrEP was a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trial of daily TDF-FTC among women in Africa. Enrolled women were in general good health, HIV antibody negative, 18 to 35 years old, hepatitis B surface antigen negative, and had normal hepatic and renal function at baseline. AST, ALT, phosphorus and serum creatinine were measured regularly throughout the trial. TDF-FTC concentrations were measured to assess adherence to TDF-FTC. The cumulative probabilities of grade 1+ creatininemia and grade 2+ phosphatemia toxicities were not statistically different between TDF-FTC and placebo arms. The cumulative probabilities of grade 1+ ALT and AST toxicities were higher among participants in the TDF-FTC arm than in the placebo arm (p = 0.03 for both). The proportions of grade 1+ and grade 2+ ALT or AST toxicities were significantly higher in participants who were hepatitis B virus surface antibody (HBsAb) positive than in those who were HBsAb-negative. Women with good adherence had higher mean change from baseline to week 4 in their AST levels (2.90 (0.37, 5.42); p = 0.025) than women with less than good adherence. Conclusions: We did not observe a significant relationship between randomization to TDF-FTC and creatinine or phosphorus toxicities. Women randomized to TDF-FTC had higher rates of mild to moderate ALT/AST toxicities, especially women with prior hepatitis B virus exposure. We also observed a significant increase in AST from baseline to week 4 among women who had higher adherence to TDF-FTC during that interval.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Kazusa DNA Research Institute. Natural antisense transcripts (NATs) are endogenous transcripts that can form double-stranded RNA structures. Many protein-coding genes (PCs) and non-protein-coding genes (NPCs) tend to form cis-NATs and trans-NATs, respectively. In this work, we identified 4,080 cis-NATs and 2,491 trans-NATs genome-widely in Arabidopsis. Of these, 5,385 NAT-siRNAs were detected from the small RNA sequencing data. NAT-siRNAs are typically 21nt, and are processed by Dicer-like 1 (DCL1)/DCL2 and RDR6 and function in epigenetically activated situations, or 24nt, suggesting these are processed by DCL3 and RDR2 and function in environment stress. NAT-siRNAs are significantly derived from PC/PC pairs of trans-NATs and NPC/NPC pairs of cis-NATs. Furthermore, NAT pair genes typically have similar pattern of epigenetic status. Cis-NATs tend to be marked by euchromatic modifications, whereas trans-NATs tend to be marked by heterochromatic modifications.
The timing of whole-plant senescence influences important agricultural traits such as yield and grain protein content. Post-transcriptional regulation by plant RNA-binding proteins is essential for proper control of gene expression, development, and stress responses. Here, we report the three-dimensional solution NMR structure and nucleic acid-binding properties of the barley glycine-rich RNA-binding protein HvGR-RBP1, whose transcript has been identified as being >45-fold up-regulated in early-as compared to late-senescing near-isogenic barley germplasm. NMR analysis reveals that HvGR-RBP1 is a multidomain protein comprising a well-folded N-terminal RNA Recognition Motif (RRM) and a structurally disordered C-terminal glycine-rich domain. Chemical shift differences observed in 2D 1H-15N correlation (HSQC) NMR spectra of full-length HvGR-RBP1 and N-HvGR-RBP1 (RRM domain only) suggest that the two domains can interact both in-trans and intramolecularly, similar to what is observed in the tobacco NtGR-RBP1 protein. Further, we show that the RRM domain of HvGR-RBP1 binds single-stranded DNA nucleotide fragments containing the consensus nucleotide sequence 5′-TTCTGX-3′ with low micromolar affinity in vitro. We also demonstrate that the C-terminal glycine-rich (HvGR) domain of Hv-GR-RBP1 can interact nonspecifically with ssRNA in vitro. Structural similarities with other plant glycine-rich RNA-binding proteins suggest that HvGR-RBP1 may be multifunctional. Based on gene expression analysis following cold stress in barley and E. coli growth studies following cold shock treatment, we conclude that HvGR-RBP1 functions in a manner similar to cold-shock proteins and harbors RNA chaperone activity. HvGR-RBP1 is therefore not only involved in the regulation of barley development including senescence, but also functions in plant responses to environmental stress.
The mechanisms responsible for active DNA demethylation remain elusive in Metazoa. A previous study that utilized zebrafish embryos provided a potent mechanism for active demethylation in which three proteins, AID, MBD4, and GADD45 are involved. We recently found age-dependent DNA hypomethylation in zebrafish, and it prompted us to examine if AID and MBD4 could be involved in the phenomenon. Unexpectedly, however, we found that most of the findings in the previous study were not reproducible. First, the injection of a methylated DNA fragment into zebrafish eggs did not affect either the methylation of genomic DNA, injected methylated DNA itself, or several loci tested or the expression level of aid, which has been shown to play a role in demethylation. Second, aberrant methylation was not observed at certain CpG islands following the injection of antisense morpholino oligonucleotides against aid and mbd4. Furthermore, we demonstrated that zebrafish MBD4 cDNA lacked a coding region for the methyl- CpG binding domain, which was assumed to be necessary for guidance to target regions. Taken together, we concluded that there is currently no evidence to support the proposed roles of AID and MBD4 in active demethylation in zebrafish embryos.Copyright:
Angiogenin (ANG) is a stress-activated ribonuclease that promotes the survival of motor neurons. Ribonuclease inactivating point mutations are found in a subset of patients with ALS, a fatal neurodegenerative disease with no cure. We recently showed that ANG cleaves tRNA within anticodon loops to produce 5′- and 3′-fragments known as tRNA-derived, stress-induced RNAs (tiRNAs). Selected 5′-tiRNAs (e.g., tiRNAAla, tiRNACys) cooperate with the translational repressor Y-box binding protein 1 (YB-1) to displace the cap-binding complex eIF4F from capped mRNA, inhibit translation initiation, and induce the assembly of stress granules (SGs). Here, we show that translationally active tiRNAs assemble unique G-quadruplex (G4) structures that are required for translation inhibition. We show that tiRNAAla binds the cold shock domain of YB-1 to activate these translational reprogramming events. We discovered that 5′-tiDNAAla (the DNA equivalent of 5′-tiRNAAla) is a stable tiRNA analog that displaces eIF4F from capped mRNA, inhibits translation initiation, and induces the assembly of SGs. The 5′-tiDNAAla also assembles a G4 structure that allows it to enter motor neurons spontaneously and trigger a neuroprotective response in a YB-1-dependent manner. Remarkably, the ability of 5′-tiRNAAla to induce SG assembly is inhibited by G4 structures formed by pathological GGGGCC repeats found in C9ORF72, the most common genetic cause of ALS, suggesting that functional interactions between G4 RNAs may contribute to neurodegenerative disease.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Kazusa DNA Research Institute. Next-generation sequencing has prompted a surge of discovery of millions of genetic variants from vertebrate genomes. Besides applications in genetic association and linkage studies, a fraction of these variants will have functional consequences. This study describes detection and characterization of 15 million SNPs from chicken genome with the goal to predict variants with potential functional implications (pfVars) from both coding and non-coding regions. The study reports: 183K amino acid-altering SNPs of which 48% predicted as evolutionary intolerant, 13K splicing variants, 51K likely to alter RNA secondary structures, 500K within most conserved elements and 3K from non-coding RNAs. Regions of local fixation within commercial broiler and layer lines were investigated as potential selective sweeps using genome-wide SNP data. Relationships with phenotypes, if any, of the pfVars were explored by overlaying the sweep regions with known QTLs. Based on this, the candidate genes and/or causal mutations for a number of important traits are discussed. Although the fixed variants within sweep regions were enriched with non-coding SNPs, some non-synonymous-intolerant mutations reached fixation, suggesting their possible adaptive advantage. The results presented in this study are expected to have important implications for future genomic research to identify candidate causal mutations and in poultry breeding.
MicroRNAs are short noncoding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. Like DNA methylation and histone modification, miRNA activity epigenetically regulates the expression of various protein-encoding genes. To date over 10,000 miRNAs have been identified, of which 940 are human. It is estimated that more than 60% of human protein-coding genes harbor miRNA target sites and thus are potentially regulated by these molecules. Mounting evidence suggests that miRNAs are involved in cell reprogramming and therefore their aberrant expression is associated with pathophysiological processes such as cancer and other disease states.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Kazusa DNA Research Institute.Bipolaris papendorfii has been reported as a fungal plant pathogen that rarely causes opportunistic infection in humans. Secondary metabolites isolated from this fungus possess medicinal and anticancer properties. However, its genetic fundamental and basic biology are largely unknown. In this study, we report the first draft genome sequence of B. papendorfii UM 226 isolated from the skin scraping of a patient. The assembled 33.4 Mb genome encodes 11,015 putative coding DNA sequences, of which, 2.49% are predicted transposable elements. Multilocus phylogenetic and phylogenomic analyses showed B. papendorfii UM 226 clustering with Curvularia species, apart from other plant pathogenic Bipolaris species. Its genomic features suggest that it is a heterothallic fungus with a putative unique gene encoding the LysM-containing protein which might be involved in fungal virulence on host plants, as well as a wide array of enzymes involved in carbohydrate metabolism, degradation of polysaccharides and lignin in the plant cell wall, secondary metabolite biosynthesis (including dimethylallyl tryptophan synthase, non-ribosomal peptide synthetase, polyketide synthase), the terpenoid pathway and the caffeine metabolism. This first genomic characterization of B. papendorfii provides the basis for further studies on its biology, pathogenicity and medicinal potential.
The growth, survival, and multiplication of a cell are determined by the genetic information encoded in its DNA. This information is transferred to RNA by transcription and then to proteins by translation. The coordinated activity of these biomolecules brings about cellular functioning. Nuclear architecture, governed by the interplay of diverse gene regulatory elements and protein factors, is crucial for controlled gene expression. In this chapter, we discuss the role of gene regulatory elements and epigenetic factors in microRNA (miRNA) expression and their implications for regenerative medicine, including induced pluripotency.
Background: Viral resistance to antiretroviral therapy threatens our best methods to control and prevent HIV infection. Current drug resistance genotyping methods are costly, optimized for subtype B virus, and primarily detect resistance mutations to protease and reverse transcriptase inhibitors. With the increasing use of integrase inhibitors in first-line therapies, monitoring for integrase inhibitor drug resistance mutations is a priority. We designed a universal primer pair to PCR amplify all major group M HIV-1 viruses for genotyping using Illumina MiSeq to simultaneously detect drug resistance mutations associated with protease, nucleoside reverse transcriptase, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase, and integrase inhibitors. Results: A universal primer pair targeting the HIV pol gene was used to successfully PCR amplify HIV isolates representing subtypes A, B, C, D, CRF01_AE and CRF02_AG. The universal primers were then tested on 62 samples from a US cohort of injection drug users failing treatment after release from prison. 94% of the samples were successfully genotyped for known drug resistance mutations in the protease, reverse transcriptase and integrase gene products. Control experiments demonstrate that mutations present at ≥ 2% frequency are reliably detected and above the threshold of error for this method. New drug resistance mutations not found in the baseline sample were identified in 54% of the patient samples after treatment failure. 86% of patients with major drug resistance mutations had 1 or more mutations associated with drug resistance to the treatment regimen at the time point of treatment failure. 59% of the emerging mutations were found at frequencies between 2% and 20% of the total sequences generated, below the estimated limit of detection of current FDA-approved genotyping techniques. Primary plasma samples with viral loads as low as 799 copies/ml were successfully genotyped using this method. Conclusions: Here we present an Illumina MiSeq-based HIV drug resistance genotyping assay. Our data suggests that this universal assay works across all major group M HIV-1 subtypes and identifies all drug resistance mutations in the pol gene known to confer resistance to protease, reverse transcriptase and integrase inhibitors. This high-throughput and sensitive assay could significantly improve access to drug resistance genotyping worldwide.
Mammalian genomes can be edited by injecting pronuclear embryos with Cas9 cRNA and guide RNA (gRNA) but it is unknown whether editing can also occur during the onset of embryonic development, prior to pronuclear embryogenesis. We here report Cas9-mediated editing during sperm-induced meiotic exit and the initiation of development. Injection of unfertilized, mouse metaphase II (mII) oocytes with Cas9 cRNA, gRNA and sperm enabled efficient editing of transgenic and native alleles. Pre-loading oocytes with Cas9 increased sensitivity to gRNA ~ 100-fold. Paternal allelic editing occurred as an early event: single embryo genome analysis revealed editing within 3 h of sperm injection, coinciding with sperm chromatin decondensation during the gamete-to-embryo transition but prior to pronucleus formation. Maternal alleles underwent editing after the first round of DNA replication, resulting in mosaicism. Asymmetric editing of maternal and paternal alleles suggests a novel strategy for discriminatory targeting of parental genomes.
Several recent studies have converged upon the innate immune DNA cytosine deaminase APOBEC3B (A3B) as a significant source of genomic uracil lesions and mutagenesis in multiple human cancers, including those of the breast, head/neck, cervix, bladder, lung, ovary, and other tissues. A3B is upregulated in these tumor types relative to normal tissues, but the mechanism is unclear. Because A3B also has antiviral activity in multiple systems and is a member of the broader innate immune response, we tested the hypothesis that human papillomavirus (HPV) infection causes A3B upregulation. We found that A3B mRNA expression and enzymatic activity were upregulated following transfection of a high-risk HPV genome and that this effect was abrogated by inactivation of E6. Transduction experiments showed that the E6 oncoprotein alone was sufficient to cause A3B upregulation, and a panel of high-risk E6 proteins triggered higher A3B levels than did a panel of low-risk or noncancer E6 proteins. Knockdown experiments in HPV-positive cell lines showed that endogenous E6 is required for A3B upregulation. Analyses of publicly available head/neck cancer data further support this relationship, as A3B levels are higher in HPV-positive cancers than in HPV-negative cancers. Taken together with the established role for high-risk E6 in functional inactivation of TP53 and published positive correlations in breast cancer between A3B upregulation and genetic inactivation of TP53, our studies suggest a model in which high-risk HPV E6, possibly through functional inactivation of TP53, causes derepression of A3B gene transcription. This would lead to a mutator phenotype that explains the observed cytosine mutation biases in HPV-positive head/neck and cervical cancers.
Purpose: To identify the genetic basis of achromatopsia (ACHM) in four patients from four unrelated Polish families. Methods: In this study, we investigated probands with a clinical diagnosis of ACHM. Ophthalmologic examinations, including visual acuity testing, color vision testing, and full-field electroretinography (ERG), were performed in all patients (with the exception of patient p4, who had no ERG). Direct DNA sequencing encompassing the entire coding region of the CNGB3 gene, eight exons of the GNAT2 gene, and exons 5–7 of the CNGA3 gene was performed. Segregation analysis for the presence and independent inheritance of two mutant alleles was performed in the three families available for study. Results: All patients showed typical achromatopsia signs and symptoms. Sequencing helped detect causative changes in the CNGB3 gene in all probands. Eight different mutations were detected in the CNGB3 gene, including five novel mutations: two splice site mutations (c.1579–1G>A and c.494–2A>T), one nonsense substitution (c.1194T>G), and two frame-shift mutations (c.393_394delGCinsTCCTGGTGA and c.1366delC). We also found three mutations: one splice site (c.1578+1G>A) and two frame-shift deletions that had been previously described (c.819_826del and c.1148delC). All respective parents were shown to be heterozygous carriers for the mutation detected in their children. Conclusions: The present study reports five novel mutations in the CNGB3 gene, and thus broadens the spectrum of probably pathogenic mutations associated with ACHM. Together with molecular data, we provide a brief clinical description of the affected individuals.
The varied NER genes and smoking are two important risk factors of bladder cancer, but the mechanism of the NER protein and smoking in cancer progression, however, remains unclear. In this report, we compared the expressions of NER genes in 79 bladder cancer tissues with or without any recurrence by real-time PCR and then analyzed the varied NER genes by immunochemistry in 219 bladder cancer tissue samples. Based on the clinical data, we analyzed the clinical value of varied NER genes and smoking in 219 bladder cancers by the Kaplan-Meier method and Cox proportional hazards regression. We found the expressions of the NER gene XPF and XPC were significantly lower in bladder cancer tissues with a recurrence compared with those without a recurrence at mRNA level. Also, the patients with the XPF and XPC defect had a statistically significant lower median recurrence-free survival time than those without the XPF and XPC defect, and smoking can make this difference more remarkable. Our results suggest that XPF and XPC expression may be a potential predictive factor for bladder cancer, and smoking can not only influence the recurrence of bladder cancer as a single factor but also aggravate the results of the XPF defect and XPC defect.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Kazusa DNA Research Institute.High-density genetic map is a valuable tool for fine mapping locus controlling a specific trait especially for perennial woody plants. In this study, we firstly constructed a high-density genetic map of mei (Prunus mume) using SLAF markers, developed by specific locus amplified fragment sequencing (SLAF-seq). The linkage map contains 8,007 markers, with a mean marker distance of 0.195 cM, making it the densest genetic map for the genus Prunus. Though weeping trees are used worldwide as landscape plants, little is known about weeping controlling gene(s) (Pl). To test the utility of the high-density genetic map, we did fine-scale mapping of this important ornamental trait. In total, three statistic methods were performed progressively based on the result of inheritance analysis. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis initially revealed that a locus on linkage group 7 was strongly responsible for weeping trait. Mutmap-like strategy and extreme linkage analysis were then applied to fine map this locus within 1.14 cM. Bioinformatics analysis of the locus identified some candidate genes. The successful localization of weeping trait strongly indicates that the high-density map constructed using SLAF markers is a worthy reference for mapping important traits for woody plants.
The regulation of the genome outside of the context of the nucleotide sequence is referred to as epigenetics; it is both a stable and dynamic regulator of gene activity and function. Direct modifications of nucleotides via methylation and/or modifications to the histones in the surrounding chromatin constitute the realm of epigenetics markers, which are coordinated via enzymatic modifications. An additional level of transcriptional and translational regulation occurs via noncoding RNAs; many varieties of these are known (i.e., microRNA, piRNA, siRNA etc.) but are only beginning to be appreciated. The centrality of epigenetics to reproduction begins with the critical role of histone and DNA methylation in the early zygote and during formation of new germ cells in order to reset for the next generation, although the transgenerational persistence of some markers reveals the incompleteness of these processes. The silencing of one X chromosome in female mammalian cells and the imprinting of genes in order to control parent-of-origin allelic expression are primary examples of epigenetics in reproduction. More recently, an emphasis on epigenetic changes in the brain have emerged; these appear to be highly dynamic, impacted by steroids and responsive to environmental cues, including positive or adverse experience, toxins, and endocrine-disrupting compounds. The importance of epigenetics to the enduring effects of hormonally mediated sexual differentiation of the brain and behavior and the timing of puberty are emerging areas of interest. A review of current methodological practices is presented as a guide to further understanding in this rapidly changing field.
Although endometriosis is suspected to be a cause of premature ovarian insufficiency (POI), the mechanism(s) underlying this process have not been elucidated. Recently, androgens were shown to promote oocyte maturation and to play a role in folliculogenesis. In addition, several reports have documented low testosterone levels in the follicular fluid obtained from endometriosis patients. We therefore examined whether the low levels of serum testosterone are associated with the apoptosis of granulosa cells in follicles obtained from endometriosis patients. Serum samples were collected from 46 patients with endometriosis and from 62 patients without endometriosis who received assisted reproductive therapy. Specimens of the ovaries obtained from 10 patients with endometrioma were collected using laparoscopy. The mean serum testosterone concentration in the patients with endometriosis was significantly lower than that observed in the patients without endometriosis. Furthermore, high expression of a pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 member, BimEL, in the follicles was found to be associated with a low serum testosterone level. We clarified the underlying mechanisms using a basic approach employing human immortalized granulosa cells derived from a primary human granulosa cell tumor, the COV434 cell line. The in vitro examination demonstrated that testosterone inhibited apoptosis induced by sex steroids depletion via the PI3K/Akt-FoxO3a pathway in the COV434 cells. In conclusion, we elucidated the mechanism underlying the anti-apoptotic effects of testosterone on granulosa cells, and found that a low-testosterone status is a potentially important step in the development of premature ovarian insufficiency in patients with endometriosis.
Schwann cells are an important cell source for regenerative therapy for neural disorders. We investigated the role of the transcription factor sex determining region Y (SRY)-box 10 (SOX10) in the proliferation and myelination of Schwann cells. SOX10 is predominantly expressed in rat sciatic nerve-derived Schwann cells and is induced shortly after birth. Among transcription factors known to be important for the differentiation of Schwann cells, SOX10 potently transactivates the S100B promoter. In cultures of Schwann cells, overexpressing SOX10 dramatically induces S100B expression, while knocking down SOX10 with shRNA suppresses S100B expression. Here, we identify three core response elements of SOX10 in the S100B promoter and intron 1 with a putative SOX motif. Knockdown of either SOX10 or S100B enhances the proliferation of Schwann cells. In addition, using dissociated cultures of dorsal root ganglia, we demonstrate that suppressing S100B with shRNA impairs myelination of Schwann cells. These results suggest that the SOX10-S100B signaling axis critically regulates Schwann cell proliferation and myelination, and therefore is a putative therapeutic target for neuronal disorders.
Annexin 1 (ANXA1) is an endogenous anti-inflammatory protein implicated in cancer. ANXA1 was previously shown to be regulated by hsa-miR-196a. However, whether ANXA1 itself regulates microRNA (miR) expression is unknown. Therefore, we investigated the regulation of miR by ANXA1 in MCF7 breast cancer cells. MCF7-EV (Empty vector) and MCF7-V5 (ANXA1-V5 expressing cells) were subjected to a miR microarray. Microarray analysis revealed a number of miRNAs which were dysregulated in MCF7-V5 cells. 2 novel miRNAs (miR562 and miR26b∗) were validated, cloned and functionally characterized. As ANXA1 constitutively activates NF-κB activity to modulate breast cancer metastasis, we found that miR26b∗ and miR562 directly targeted the canonical NF-κB pathway by targeting the 39 UTR and inhibiting expression of Rel A (p65) and NF-κB1 (p105) respectively. MiR562 inhibited wound healing, which was reversed when ANXA1 was overexpressed. Overexpression of either miR562 or miR26b∗ in MCF-7 cells enhanced endothelial tube formation when cocultured with human umbilical cord endothelial cells while conversely, treatment of MCF7 cells with either anti-miR562 or anti-miR26b∗ inhibited endothelial tube formation after co-culture. Further analysis of miR562 revealed that miR562-transfected cell conditioned media enhances endothelial cell tube formation, indicating that miR562 increased angiogenic secreted factors from MCF-7 breast tumor cells. TNFα was increased upon overexpression of miR562, which was reversed when ANXA1 was cotransfected In conclusion, this data suggests that ANXA1-regulated miR26b∗ and miR562 may play a role in wound healing and tumor-induced endothelial cell tube formation by targeting NF-κB expression and point towards a potential therapeutic target for breast cancer.
Apart from their role in the immune defence against pathogens evidence of a role of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) in autoimmune diseases has accumulated in the past years. The aim of this project was to examine the functional impact of the human cathelicidin LL-37 and the mouse cathelicidin-related AMP (CRAMP) on the pathogenesis of lupus and arthritis. Serum LL-37 and anti-LL-37 levels were measured by ELISA in healthy donors and patients with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) and Rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Pristane-induced lupus was induced in female wild type (WT) and cathelicidin-deficient (CRAMP-/-) mice. Serum levels of anti-Sm/RNP, anti-dsDNA, and anti-histone were determined via ELISA, cytokines in sera and peritoneal lavages were measured via Multiplex. Expression of Interferon I stimulated genes (ISG) was determined by real-time PCR. Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) was induced in male WT and CRAMP-/- mice and arthritis severity was visually scored and analysed histomorphometrically by OsteoMeasure software. Serum levels of anti-LL-37 were higher in SLE-patients compared to healthy donors or patients with RA. However, no correlation to markers of disease activity or organ involvement was observed. No significant differences of autoantibody or cytokine/chemokine levels, or of expression of ISGs were observed between WT and CRAMP-/- mice after pristane-injection. Furthermore, lung and kidney pathology did not differ in the absence of CRAMP. Incidence and severity of CIA and histological parameters (inflammation, cartilage degradation, and bone erosion) were not different in WT and CRAMP-/- mice. Although cathelicidins are upregulated in mouse models of lupus and arthritis, cathelicidin-deficiency did not persistently affect the diseases. Also in patients with SLE, autoantibodies against cathelicidins did not correlate with disease manifestation. Reactivity against cathelicidins in lupus and arthritis could thus be an epiphenomenon caused by extensive overexpression in blood and affected tissues. In addition, other cationic AMPs could functionally compensate for the deficiency of cathelicidins.
Background: It is well established that genetic and epigenetic alterations are common events in prostate cancer, which may lead to aberrant expression of critical genes. The importance of epigenetic mechanisms in prostate cancer carcinogenesis is increasingly evident. In this study, the focus will be on histone modifications and the primary objectives are to map H3K27me3 marks and quantify RAR beta 2, ER alpha, SRC3, RGMA, PGR, and EZH2 gene expressions in prostate cancer tissues compared to normal tissues. In addition, a data analysis was made in connection with the clinicopathological parameters. Methods: 71 normal specimens and 66 cancer prostate tissues were randomly selected in order to assess the proportion of the repressive H3K27me3 mark and gene expression. H3K27me3 level was evaluated by ChIP-qPCR and mRNA expression using RT-qPCR between prostate cancer and normal tissues. Subsequently, western-blotting was performed for protein detection. The analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed, and Tukey's test was used to correct for multiple comparisons (p-value threshold of 0.05). The principal component analysis (PCA) and discriminant factorial analysis (DFA) were used to explore the association between H3K27me3 level and clinicopathological parameters. Results: The study demonstrated that H3K27me3 level was significantly enriched at the RAR beta 2, ER alpha, PGR, and RGMA promoter regions in prostate cancer tissues compared to normal tissues. After stratification by clinicopathological parameters, the H3K27me3 level was positively correlated with Gleason score, PSA levels and clinical stages for RAR beta 2, ER alpha, PGR, and RGMA. High H3K27me3 mark was significantly associated with decreased RAR beta 2, ER alpha, PGR and RGMA gene expressions in prostate cancer sample compared to the normal one. Moreover, the results showed that mRNA level of EZH2, AR and SRC3 are upregulated in prostate cancer compared to normal prostate tissues and this correlates positively with Gleason score, PSA levels and clinical stages. Obviously, these observations were confirmed by protein level using western-blot. Conclusions: This data clearly demonstrated that H3K27me3 level correlated with aggressive tumor features. Also this study revealed that reverse correlation of RAR beta 2, ER alpha, PGR, and RGMA expressions with EZH2, SRC3, and AR expressions in prostate cancer tissues suggests that these genes are the target of EZH2. Therefore, all therapeutic strategies leading to histone demethylation with epigenetic drugs such as histone methyltransferase inhibitor may be relevant treatments against prostate cancer.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are an endogenous class of animal RNAs. Despite their abundance, their function and expression in the nervous system are unknown. Therefore, we sequenced RNA from different brain regions, primary neurons, isolated synapses, as well as during neuronal differentiation. Using these and other available data, we discovered and analyzed thousands of neuronal human and mouse circRNAs. circRNAs were extraordinarily enriched in the mammalian brain, well conserved in sequence, often expressed as circRNAs in both human and mouse, and sometimes even detected in Drosophila brains. circRNAs were overall upregulated during neuronal differentiation, highly enriched in synapses, and often differentially expressed compared to their mRNA isoforms. circRNA expression correlated negatively with expression of the RNA-editing enzyme ADAR1. Knockdown of ADAR1 induced elevated circRNA expression. Together, we provide a circRNA brain expression atlas and evidence for important circRNA functions and values as biomarkers.
The cheap and easy identification of species is necessary within multiple fields of molecular biology. The use of high-resolution melting (HRM) of DNA provides a fast closed-tube method for analysis of the sequence composition of the mitochondrial genes 12S rRNA and cytochrome b. We investigated the potential use of HRM for species identification within eleven different animal groups commonly found in Europe by animal-group-specific DNA amplification followed by DNA melting. Influence factors as DNA amount, additional single base alterations, and the existence of mixed samples were taken into consideration. Visual inspection combined with mathematical evaluation of the curve shapes did resolve nearly all species within an animal group. The assay can therefore not only be used for identification of animal groups and mixture analysis but also for species identification within the respective groups. The use of a universal 12S rRNA system additionally revealed a possible approach for species discrimination, mostly by exclusion. The use of the HRM assay showed to be a reliable, fast, and cheap method for species discrimination within a broad range of different animal species and can be used in a flexible "modular" manner depending on the question to be solved.
The accessibility of high-throughput sequencing has revolutionized many fields of biology. In order to better understand host-associated viral and microbial communities, a comprehensive workflow for DNA and RNA extraction was developed. The workflow concurrently generates viral and microbial metagenomes, as well as metatranscriptomes, from a single sample for next-generation sequencing. The coupling of these approaches provides an overview of both the taxonomical characteristics and the community encoded functions. The presented methods use Cystic Fibrosis (CF) sputum, a problematic sample type, because it is exceptionally viscous and contains high amount of mucins, free neutrophil DNA, and other unknown contaminants. The protocols described here target these problems and successfully recover viral and microbial DNA with minimal human DNA contamination. To complement the metagenomics studies, a metatranscriptomics protocol was optimized to recover both microbial and host mRNA that contains relatively few ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequences. An overview of the data characteristics is presented to serve as a reference for assessing the success of the methods. Additional CF sputum samples were also collected to (i) evaluate the consistency of the microbiome profiles across seven consecutive days within a single patient, and (ii) compare the consistency of metagenomic approach to a 16S ribosomal RNA gene-based sequencing. The results showed that daily fluctuation of microbial profiles without antibiotic perturbation was minimal and the taxonomy profiles of the common CF-associated bacteria were highly similar between the 16S rDNA libraries and metagenomes generated from the hypotonic lysis (HL)-derived DNA. However, the differences between 16S rDNA taxonomical profiles generated from total DNA and HL-derived DNA suggest that hypotonic lysis and the washing steps benefit in not only removing the human-derived DNA, but also microbial-derived extracellular DNA that may misrepresent the actual microbial profiles.
Sub1 and Maf1 exert an opposite effect on RNA polymerase III transcription interfering with different steps of the transcription cycle. In this study, we present evidence that Sub1 and Maf1 also exhibit an opposite role on yeast chronological life span. First, cells lacking Sub1 need more time than wild type to exit from resting and this lag in re-proliferation is correlated with a delay in transcriptional reactivation. Second, our data show that the capacity of the cells to properly establish a quiescent state is impaired in the absence of Sub1 resulting in a premature death that is dependent on the Ras/PKA and Tor1/Sch9 signalling pathways. On the other hand, we show that maf1D cells are long-lived mutant suggesting a connection between Pol III transcription and yeast longevity.
During maturation, tRNA molecules undergo a series of individual processing steps, ranging from exo-and endonucleolytic trimming reactions at their 5'-and 3'-ends, specific base modifications and intron removal to the addition of the conserved 3'-terminal CCA sequence. Especially in mitochondria, this plethora of processing steps is completed by various editing events, where base identities at internal positions are changed and/or nucleotides at 5'-and 3'-ends are replaced or incorporated. In this review, we will focus predominantly on the latter reactions, where a growing number of cases indicate that these editing events represent a rather frequent and widespread phenomenon. While the mechanistic basis for 5'-and 3'-end editing differs dramatically, both reactions represent an absolute requirement for generating a functional tRNA. Current in vivo and in vitro model systems support a scenario in which these highly specific maturation reactions might have evolved out of ancient promiscuous RNA polymerization or quality control systems.
Background: Small RNA-guided transcriptional silencing (nuclear RNAi) is fundamental to genome integrity and epigenetic inheritance. Despite recent progress in identifying the capability and genetic requirements for nuclear RNAi in Caenorhabditis elegans, the natural targets and cellular functions of nuclear RNAi remain elusive. Methods: To resolve this gap, we coordinately examined the genome-wide profiles of transcription, histone H3 lysine 9 methylation (H3K9me) and endogenous siRNAs of a germline nuclear Argonaute (hrde-1/wago-9) mutant and identified regions on which transcription activity is markedly increased and/or H3K9me level is markedly decreased relative to wild type animals. Results: Our data revealed a distinct set of native targets of germline nuclear RNAi, with the H3K9me response exhibiting both overlapping and non-overlapping distribution with the transcriptional silencing response. Interestingly LTR retrotransposons, but not DNA transposons, are highly enriched in the targets of germline nuclear RNAi. The genomic distribution of the native targets is highly constrained, with > 99% of the identified targets present in five autosomes but not in the sex chromosome. By contrast, HRDE-1-associated small RNAs correspond to all chromosomes. In addition, we found that the piRNA pathway is not required for germline nuclear RNAi activity on native targets. Conclusion: Germline nuclear RNAi in C. elegans is required to silence retrotransposons but not DNA transposon. Transcriptional silencing and H3K9me can occur independently of each other on the native targets of nuclear RNAi in C. elegans. Our results rule out a simple model in which nuclear Argonaute protein-associated-small RNAs are sufficient to trigger germline nuclear RNAi responses. In addition, the piRNA pathway and germline nuclear RNAi are specialized to target different types of foreign genetic elements for genome surveillance in C. elegans.
Mogrosides, the major bioactive components isolated from the fruits of Siraitia grosvenorii, are a family of cucurbitane-type tetracyclic triterpenoid saponins that are used worldwide as high-potency sweeteners and possess a variety of notable pharmacological activities. Mogrosides are synthesized from 2,3-oxidosqualene via a series of reactions catalyzed by cucurbitadienol synthase (CbQ), Cyt P450s (P450s) and UDP glycosyltransferases (UGTs) in vivo. However, the relevant genes have not been characterized to date. In this study, we report successful identification of SgCbQ and UGT74AC1, which were previously predicted via RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) and digital gene expression (DGE) profile analysis of the fruits of S. grosvenorii. SgCbQ was functionally characterized by expression in the lanosterol synthase-deficient yeast strain GIL77 and was found to accumulate cucurbitadienol as the sole product. UGT74AC1 was heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli as a His-tag protein and it showed specificity for mogrol by transfer of a glucose moiety to the C-3 hydroxyl to form mogroside IE by in vitro enzymatic activity assays. This study reports the identification of CbQ and glycosyltransferase from S. grosvenorii for the first time. The results also suggest that RNA-seq, combined with DGE profile analysis, is a promising approach for discovery of candidate genes involved in biosynthesis of triterpene saponins.
Using transgenic rice as a bioreactor for mass production of pharmaceutical proteins could potentially reduce the cost of production significantly. However, a major concern over the bioreactor transgenic rice is the risk of its unintended spreading into environment and into food or feed supplies. Here we report a mitigating method to prevent unwanted transgenic rice spreading by a double builtin containment strategy, which sets a selectively termination method and a visual tag technology in the T-DNA for transformation. We created transgenic rice with an inserted T-DNA that harbors a human proinsulin gene fused with the far-red fluorescent protein gene mKate-S158A, an RNAi cassette suppressing the expression of the rice bentazon detoxification enzyme CYP81A6, and an EPSPS gene as the selection marker for transformation. Herbicide spray tests indicated that such transgenic rice plants can be killed selectively by a spray of bentazon at regular field application dosage for rice weed control. Moreover, the transgenic rice seeds were bright red in color due to the fused far-red fluorescent protein, and could be easily visualized under daylight by naked eyes. Thus, the transgenic rice plants reported in this study could be selectively killed by a commonly used herbicide during their growth stage, and their seeds may be detected visually during processing and consumption after harvest. This double built-in containment strategy may greatly enhance the confinement of the transgenic rice.
The epidermis of shoot organs in plants develops from the outermost layer (L1) of the shoot apical meristem. In Arabidopsis, a pair of homeobox genes, ARABIDOPSIS THALIANA MERISTEM LAYER1 (ATML1) and PROTODERMAL FACTOR2 (PDF2), play a role in regulating the expression of L1-specific genes. atml1-1 pdf2-1 double mutants show striking defects in the differentiation of shoot epidermal cells. However, because atml1-1 and pdf2-1 have a T-DNA inserted downstream of the respective homeobox sequences, these alleles may not represent null mutations. Here we characterized additional mutant alleles that have a T-DNA insertion at different positions of each gene. Double mutants of a strong atml1-3 allele with each pdf2 allele were found to cause embryonic arrest at the globular stage. Although with low frequency, all double mutant combinations of a weak atml1-1 allele with each pdf2 allele germinated and showed phenotypes defective in shoot epidermal cell differentiation. We further confirmed that transgenic induction of PDF2 fused to the Drosophila Engrailed repressor domain temporarily interferes with epidermal cell differentiation in the wild-type background. These results indicate that ATML1 and PDF2 act redundantly as a positive regulator of shoot epidermal cell differentiation and at least one copy of these genes is essential for embryo development.
High-risk human papillomavirus (HPV), especially HPV16, is considered a main causative agent of cervical cancer. Upon HPV infection, the viral oncoprotein E6 disrupts the host tumor-suppressor protein p53, thus promoting malignant transformation of normal cervical cells. Here, we used the newly developed programmable ribonucleic acid-guided clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)/Cas system to disrupt the HPV16 E6 gene. We showed that HPV16 E6 deoxyribonucleic acid was cleaved at specific sites, leading to apoptosis and growth inhibition of HPV16-positive SiHa and CaSki cells, but not HPV-negative C33A or human embryonic kidney 293 cells. We also observed downregulation of the E6 protein and restoration of the p53 protein. These data proved that the HPV16 E6 ribonucleic acid-guided CRISPR/Cas system might be an effective therapeutic agent in treating HPV infection-related cervical malignancy.
Type 2 diabetes is characterised by an age-related decline in insulin secretion. We previously identified a 50% age-related decline in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copy number in isolated human islets. The purpose of this study was to mimic this degree of mtDNA depletion in MIN6 cells to determine whether there is a direct impact on insulin secretion. Transcriptional silencing of mitochondrial transcription factor A, TFAM, decreased mtDNA levels by 40% in MIN6 cells. This level of mtDNA depletion significantly decreased mtDNA gene transcription and translation, resulting in reduced mitochondrial respiratory capacity and ATP production. Glucose-stimulated insulin secretion was impaired following partial mtDNA depletion, but was normalised following treatment with glibenclamide. This confirms that the deficit in the insulin secretory pathway precedes K+ channel closure, indicating that the impact of mtDNA depletion is at the level of mitochondrial respiration. In conclusion, partial mtDNA depletion to a degree comparable to that seen in aged human islets impaired mitochondrial function and directly decreased insulin secretion. Using our model of partial mtDNA depletion following targeted gene silencing of TFAM, we have managed to mimic the degree of mtDNA depletion observed in aged human islets, and have shown how this correlates with impaired insulin secretion. We therefore predict that the age-related mtDNA
In the South African deep mines, a variety of biofilms growing in mine corridor walls as water seeps from intersections or from fractures represents excellent proxies for deep-subsurface environments. However, they may be greatly affected by the oxygen inputs through the galleries of mining activities. As a consequence, the interaction between the anaerobic water coming out from the walls with the oxygen inputs creates new conditions that support rich microbial communities. The inherent difficulties for sampling these delicate habitats, together with transport and storage conditions may alter the community features and composition. Therefore, the development of in situ monitoring methods would be desirable for quick evaluation of the microbial community. In this work, we report the usefulness of an antibodymicroarray (EMChip66) immunoassay for a quick check of the microbial diversity of biofilms located at 1.3 km below surface within the Beatrix deep gold mine (South Africa). In addition, a deconvolution method, previously described and used for environmental monitoring, based on graph theory and applied on antibody crossreactivity was used to interpret the immunoassay results. The results were corroborated and further expanded by 16S rRNA gene sequencing analysis. Both culture-independent techniques coincided in detecting features related to aerobic sulfur-oxidizers, aerobic chemoorganotrophic Alphaproteobacteria and metanotrophic Gammaproteobacteria. 16S rRNA gene sequencing detected phylotypes related to nitrate-reducers and anaerobic sulfur-oxidizers, whereas the EMChip66 detected immunological features from methanogens and sulfatereducers. The results reveal a diverse microbial community with syntrophic metabolisms both anaerobic (fermentation, methanogenesis, sulphate and nitrate reduction) and aerobic (methanotrophy, sulphur oxidation). The presence of oxygen-scavenging microbes might indicate that the system is modified by the artificial oxygen inputs from the mine galleries.
Viruses are increasingly recognized as major causes of communityacquired pneumonia (CAP). Few studies have investigated the clinical predictors of viral pneumonia, and the results have been inconsistent. In this study, the clinical predictors of viral pneumonia were investigated in terms of their utility as indicators for viral pneumonia in patients with CAP. Methods: Adult patients ($18 years old) with CAP, tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for respiratory virus, at two teaching hospitals between October 2010 and May 2013, were identified retrospectively. Demographic and clinical data were collected by reviewing the hospital electronic medical records. Results: During the study period, 456 patients with CAP were identified who met the definition, and 327 (72%) patients were tested using the respiratory virus PCR detection test. Viral pneumonia (n560) was associated with rhinorrhea, a higher lymphocyte fraction in the white blood cells, lower serum creatinine and groundglass opacity (GGO) in radiology results, compared to non-viral pneumoniaand (n=250) (p<and0.05, each). In a multivariate analysis, rhinorrhea (Odd ratio (OR) 3.52; 95% Confidence interval (CI), 1.58-7.87) and GGO (OR 4.68; 95% CI, 2.48-8.89) were revealed as independent risk factors for viral pneumonia in patients with CAP. The sensitivity, specificity, positive- and negative-predictive values (PPV and NPV) of rhinorrhea were 22, 91, 36 and 83%: the sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV of GGO were and 43, 84, 40 and 86%, respectively. Conclusion: Symptom of rhinorrhea and GGO predicted viral pneumonia in patients with CAP. The high specificity of rhinorrhea and GGO suggested that these could be useful indicators for empirical antiviral therapy.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Japanese Biochemical Society. All rights reserved.Two G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that couple with Gαq/11, B2 bradykinin (BK) receptor (B2R) and ATP/UTP receptor P2Y<inf>2</inf> (P2Y<inf>2</inf>R), are ubiquitously expressed and responsible for vascular tone, inflammation, and pain. We analysed the cellular signalling of P2Y<inf>2</inf>Rs in cells that express B2Rs. B2R desensitization induced by BK or B2R internalization-inducing glycans cross-desensitized the P2Y<inf>2</inf>R response to ATP/UTP. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer from P2Y<inf>2</inf>R-AcGFP to B2R-DsRed was detected in the cells and on the cell surfaces, showing the close association of these GPCRs. BK- and ATP-induced cross-internalization of P2Y<inf>2</inf>R and B2R, respectively, was shown in a β-galactosidase complementation assay using P2Y<inf>2</inf>R or B2R fused to the H31R substituted α donor peptide of a β-galactosidase reporter enzyme (P2Y<inf>2</inf>R-α or B2R-α) with coexpression of the FYVE domain of endofin, an early endosome protein, fused to the M15 acceptor deletion mutant of β-galactosidase (the ω peptide, FYVE-ω). Arrestin recruitment to the GPCRs by cross-activation was also shown with the similar way. Coimmunoprecipitation showed that B2R and P2Y<inf>2</inf>R were closely associated in the cotransfected cells. These results indicate that B2R couples with P2Y<inf>2</inf>R and that these GPCRs act together to fine-tune cellular responsiveness. The collaboration between these receptors may permit rapid onset and turning off of biological events.
Paralysis after a spinal cord injury (SCI) induces physiological adaptations that compromise the musculoskeletal and metabolic systems. Unlike non-SCI individuals, people with spinal cord injury experience minimal muscle activity which compromises optimal glucose utilization and metabolic control. Acute or chronic muscle activity, induced through electrical stimulation, may regulate key genes that enhance oxidative metabolism in paralyzed muscle. We investigated the short and long term effects of electrically induced exercise on mRNA expression of human paralyzed muscle. We developed an exercise dose that activated the muscle for only 0.6% of the day. The short term effects were assessed 3 hours after a single dose of exercise, while the long term effects were assessed after training 5 days per week for at least one year (adherence 81%). We found a single dose of exercise regulated 117 biological pathways as compared to 35 pathways after one year of training. A single dose of electrical stimulation increased the mRNA expression of transcriptional, translational, and enzyme regulators of metabolism important to shift muscle toward an oxidative phenotype (PGC-1α, NR4A3, IFRD1, ABRA, PDK4). However, chronic training increased the mRNA expression of specific metabolic pathway genes (BRP44, BRP44L, SDHB, ACADVL), mitochondrial fission and fusion genes (MFF, MFN1, MFN2), and slow muscle fiber genes (MYH6, MYH7, MYL3, MYL2). These findings support that a dose of electrical stimulation (∼10 minutes/day) regulates metabolic gene signaling pathways in human paralyzed muscle. Regulating these pathways early after SCI may contribute to reducing diabetes in people with longstanding paralysis from SCI.
In the present study, the microneme 5 gene of Eimeria acervulina (E. acervulina) (EaMIC5) was cloned and characterized. Specific primers for the rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) were designed based on the expressed sequence tag (EST, GenBank Accession No. EH386430.1) to amplify the 3′- and 5′-ends of EaMIC5. The full length cDNA of this gene was obtained by overlapping the sequences of 3′-and 5′-extremities and amplification by reverse transcription PCR. Sequence analysis revealed that the open reading frame (ORF) of EaMIC5 was 336 bp and encoded a protein of 111 amino acids with 12.18 kDa. The ORF was inserted into pET-32a (+) to produce recombinant EaMIC5. Using western blotting assay, the recombinant protein was successfully recognized by the sera of chicks experimentally infected with E. acervulina, while the native protein in the somatic extract of sporozoites was as well detected by sera from rats immunized with the recombinant protein of EaMIC5. Immunofluorescence analysis using antibody against recombinant protein EaMIC5 indicated that this protein was expressed in the sporozoites and merozoites stages of E. acervulina. Animal challenge experiments demonstrated that the recombinant protein of EaMIC5 could significantly increase the average body weight gains, decrease the mean lesion scores and the oocyst outputs of the immunized chickens, and presented anticoccidial index (ACI) more than 160. All the above results suggested that the EaMIC5 was a novel E. acervulina antigen and could be an effective candidate for the development of a new vaccine against this parasite.
Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified a series of new genetic susceptibility loci for breast cancer (BC). However, the correlations between these variants and breast cancer are still not clear. In order to explore the role of breast cancer susceptibility variants in a Southeast Chinese population, we genotyped two common SNPs at chromosome 6q25 (rs2046210) and in TOX3 (rs4784227) in a case-control study with a total of 702 breast cancer cases and 794 healthy-controls. In addition, we also evaluated the multiple interactions among genetic variants, risk factors, and tumor subtypes. Associations of genotypes with breast cancer risk was evaluated using multivariate logistic regression to estimate odds ratios (OR) and their 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). The results indicated that both polymorphisms were significantly associated with the risk of breast cancer, with per allele OR51.35, (95%CI51.17-1.57) for rs2046210 and per allele OR51.24 (95%CI51.06-1.45) for rs4784227. Furthermore, in subgroup stratified analyses, we observed that the T allele of rs4784227 was significantly associated with elevated OR among postmenopausal populations (OR51.44, 95%CI 1.11- 1.87) but not in premenopausal populations, with the heterogeneity P value of P50.064. These findings suggest that the genetic variants at chromosome 6q25 and in the TOX3 gene may play important roles in breast cancer development in a Chinese population and the underlying biological mechanisms need to be further elucidated.
Tumor-initiating cells are a subpopulation in aggressive cancers that exhibit traits shared with stem cells, including the ability to self-renew and differentiate, commonly referred to as stemness. In addition, such cells are resistant to chemoand radiation therapy posing a therapeutic challenge. To uncover stemnessassociated functions in glioma-initiating cells (GICs), transcriptome profiles were compared to neural stem cells (NSCs) and gene ontology analysis identified an enrichment of Ca2+ signaling genes in NSCs and the more stem-like (NSCproximal) GICs. Functional analysis in a set of different GIC lines regarding sensitivity to disturbed homeostasis using A23187 and Thapsigargin, revealed that NSC-proximal GICs were more sensitive, corroborating the transcriptome data. Furthermore, Ca2+ drug sensitivity was reduced in GICs after differentiation, with most potent effect in the NSC-proximal GIC, supporting a stemness-associated Ca2+ sensitivity. NSCs and the NSC-proximal GIC line expressed a larger number of ion channels permeable to potassium, sodium and Ca2+. Conversely, a higher number of and higher expression levels of Ca2+ binding genes that may buffer Ca2+, were expressed in NSC-distal GICs. In particular, expression of the AMPA glutamate receptor subunit GRIA1, was found to associate with Ca2+ sensitive NSC-proximal GICs, and decreased as GICs differentiated along with reduced Ca2+ drug sensitivity. The correlation between high expression of Ca2+ channels (such as GRIA1) and sensitivity to Ca2+ drugs was confirmed in an additional nine novel GIC lines. Calcium drug sensitivity also correlated with expression of the NSC markers nestin (NES) and FABP7 (BLBP, brain lipid-binding protein) in this extended analysis. In summary, NSC-associated NES+/FABP7+/GRIA1+ GICs were selectively sensitive to disturbances in Ca2+ homeostasis, providing a potential target mechanism for eradication of an immature population of malignant cells.
Methods: The sensitizing effects of PARP inhibition on TRAIL-mediated apoptosis and potential toxicity were analyzed using viability assays and flow cytometry in established GBM cell lines, low-passage neurospheres and astrocytes in vitro. Molecular analyses included western blots and gene silencing. In vivo, effects on tumor growth were examined in a murine subcutaneous xenograft model. Results: The combination treatment of PARP inhibitors and TRAIL led to an increased cell death with activation of caspases and inhibition of formation of neurospheres when compared to single-agent treatment. Mechanistically, pharmacological PARP inhibition elicited a nuclear stress response with upregulation of down-stream DNA-stress response proteins, e.g., CCAAT enhancer binding protein (C/EBP) homology protein (CHOP). Furthermore, Olaparib and PJ34 increased protein levels of DR5 in a concentration and time-dependent manner. In turn, siRNA-mediated suppression of DR5 mitigated the effects of TRAIL/PARP inhibitor-mediated apoptosis. In addition, suppression of PARP-1 levels enhanced TRAIL-mediated apoptosis in malignant glioma cells. Treatment of human astrocytes with the combination of TRAIL/PARP inhibitors did not cause toxicity. Finally, the combination treatment of TRAIL and PJ34 significantly reduced tumor growth in vivo when compared to treatment with each agent alone. Conclusions: PARP inhibition represents a promising avenue to overcome apoptotic resistance in GBM. Background:Resistance to apoptosis is a paramount issue in the treatment of Glioblastoma (GBM). We show that targeting PARP by the small molecule inhibitors, Olaparib (AZD-2281) or PJ34, reduces proliferation and lowers the apoptotic threshold of GBM cells in vitro and in vivo.
High risk (oncogenic) human papillomavirus (HPV) infection causes cervical cancer. Infections are common but most clear naturally. Persistent infection can progress to cancer. Pre-neoplastic disease (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia/CIN) is classified by histology (CIN1-3) according to severity. Cervical abnormalities are screened for by cytology and/or detection of high risk HPV but both methods are imperfect for prediction of which women need treatment. There is a need to understand the host virus interactions that lead to different disease outcomes and to develop biomarker tests for accurate triage of infected women. As cancer is increasingly presumed to develop from proliferative, tumour initiating, cancer stem cells (CSCs), and as other oncogenic viruses induce stem cell associated gene expression, we evaluated whether presence of mRNA (detected by qRT-PCR) or proteins (detected by flow cytometry and antibody based proteomic microarray) from stem cell associated genes and/or increased cell proliferation (detected by flow cytometry) could be detected in well-characterised, routinely collected cervical samples from high risk HPV+ve women. Both cytology and histology results were available for most samples with moderate to high grade abnormality. We found that stem cell associated proteins including human chorionic gonadotropin, the oncogene TP63 and the transcription factor SOX2 were upregulated in samples from women with CIN3 and that the stem cell related, cell surface, protein podocalyxin was detectable on cells in samples from a subset of women with CIN3. SOX2, TP63 and human gonadotrophin mRNAs were upregulated in high grade disease. Immunohistochemistry showed that SOX2 and TP63 proteins clearly delineated tumour cells in invasive squamous cervical cancer. Samples from women with CIN3 showed increased proliferating cells. We believe that these markers may be of use to develop triage tests for women with high grade cervical abnormality to distinguish those who may progress to cancer from those who may be treated more conservatively.
RNA and DNA syntheses share many properties. Therefore, the existence of 'swinger' RNAs, presumed 'orphan' transcripts matching genomic sequences only if transcription systematically exchanged nucleotides, suggests replication producing swinger DNA. Transcripts occur in many short-lived copies, the few cellular DNA molecules are long-lived. Hence pressures for functional swinger DNAs are greater than for swinger RNAs. Protein coding properties of swinger sequences differ from original sequences, suggesting rarity of corresponding swinger DNA. For genes producing structural RNAs, such as tRNAs and rRNAs, three exchanges (A<->T, C<->G and A<->T+C<->G) conserve self-hybridization properties. All nuclear eukaryote swinger DNA sequences detected in GenBank are for rRNA genes assuming A<->T+C<->G exchanges. In brachyuran crabs, 25 species had A<->T+C<->G swinger 18S rDNA, all matching the reverse-exchanged version of regular 18S rDNA of a related species. In this taxon, swinger replication of 18S rDNA apparently associated with, or even resulted in species radiation. A<->T+C<->G transformation doesn't invert sequence direction, differing from inverted repeats. Swinger repeats (detectable only assuming swinger transformations, A<->T+C<->G swinger repeats most frequent) within regular human rRNAs, independently confirm swinger polymerizations for most swinger types. Swinger replication might be an unsuspected molecular mechanism for ultrafast speciation.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are series of transcripts with important biological functions. Various diseases have been associated with aberrant expression of lncRNAs and the related dysregulation of mRNAs. In this review, we highlight the mechanisms of dynamic lncRNA expression. The chromatin state contributes to the low and specific expression of lncRNAs. The transcription of non-coding RNA genes is regulated by many core transcription factors applied to protein-coding genes. However, specific DNA sequences may allow their unsynchronized transcription with their location-associated mRNAs. Additionally, there are multiple mechanisms involved in the post-transcriptional regulation of lncRNAs. Among these, microRNAs might have indispensible regulatory effects on lncRNAs, based on recent discoveries.
Block ionomer complex (BIC) dissociation and the subsequent effects on gene "knockdown" are reported. Aqueous reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer (aRAFT) polymerization was utilized to prepare a statistical macro chain transfer agent (macroCTA) consisting of N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide (HPMA) and N-(3-aminopropyl)methacrylamide (APMA); HPMA confers water stability, and APMA provides a facile pathway for the conjugation of folic acid, a cellular targeting moiety. This macroCTA was chain extended with N,N-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)methacrylamide (DMAPMA), thus preparing hydrophilic-block-cationic copolymers with varying repeat units of DMAPMA. After end-group removal and folic acid conjugation, these hydrophilic-block-cationic copolymers were complexed with small interfering RNA (siRNA) and GLuc DNA, a double stranded DNA (dsDNA) analogue of siRNA. These complexes were prepared at a nitrogen-to-phosphate ratio (N : P) = 1, and complexes prepared with siRNA and GLuc DNA were demonstrated to be comparable; the hydrodynamic radii (Rh) and changes to the secondary structure were identical, while ζ-potential and gel electrophoresis confirmed complex neutrality. Analytical ultracentrifugation (AUC) was utilized to ascertain binding constants and stoichiometry. Increased DMAPMA block length (cationic length) caused an increase in the binding constant, but the stoichiometry remained constant at 1 : 1. Solution differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) was conducted to investigate the BIC stability. Similar to AUC, the melting temperature (Tm) increased with increasing cationic block length, and overall, a shift in Tm of ∼40 ° C was observed, indicating that increasing the DMAPMA length confers greater BIC stability. Furthermore, complex dissociation was not observed. Gene down-regulation was monitored in KB cells expressing Gaussia Luciferase, and the time for maximum gene knockdown to occur increased with increasing DMAPMA block length. Given the large binding constants and this increased stability, it can be concluded that in vitro complex dissociation occurs via an ion exchange mechanism.
AIM: To investigate the role of claudin 1 in the regulation of genes involved in cell migration and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α)-induced gene expression in human gastric adenocarcinoma cells. METHODS: Knockdown experiments were conducted with claudin 1 small interfering RNA (siRNA), and the effects on the cell cycle, apoptosis, migration and invasion were analyzed in human gastric adenocarcinoma MKN28 cells. The gene expression profiles of cells were analyzed by microarray and bioinformatics. RESULTS: The knockdown of claudin 1 significantly inhibited cell proliferation, migration and invasion, and increased apoptosis. Microarray analysis identified 245 genes whose expression levels were altered by the knockdown of claudin 1. Pathway analysis showed that the top-ranked molecular and cellular function was the cellular movement related pathway, which involved MMP7, TNF-SF10, TGFBR1, and CCL2. Furthermore, TNF-and nuclear frctor-κB were the top-ranked upstream regulators related to claudin 1. TNF-α treatment increased claudin 1 expression and cell migration in MKN28 cells. Microarray analysis indicated that the depletion of claudin 1 inhibited 80% of the TNF-α-induced mRNA expression changes. Further, TNF-α did not enhance cell migration in the claudin 1 siRNA transfected cells. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that claudin 1 is an important messenger that regulates TNF-α-induced gene expression and migration in gastric cancer cells. A deeper understanding of these cellular processes may be helpful in establishing new therapeutic strategies for gastric cancer.
Peripheral T cells are in G0 phase and do not proliferate. When they encounter an antigen, they enter the cell cycle and proliferate in order to initiate an active immune response. Here, we have determined the first two cell cycle times of a leading population of CD4+ T cells stimulated by PMA plus ionomycin in vitro. The first cell cycle began around 10 h after stimulation and took approximately 16 h. Surprisingly, the second cell cycle was extremely rapid and required only 6 h. T cells might have a unique regulatory mechanism to compensate for the shortage of the gap phases in cell cycle progression. This unique feature might be a basis for a quick immune response against pathogens, as it maximizes the rate of proliferation.
Bone displays suppressed osteogenesis in inflammatory diseases such as sepsis and rheumatoid arthritis. However, the underlying mechanisms have not yet been clearly explained. To identify the gene expression patterns in the bone, we performed Affymetrix Mouse Genome 430 2.0 Array with RNA isolated from mouse femurs 4 h after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration. The gene expressions were confirmed with real-time PCR. The serum concentration of the N-terminal propeptide of type I collagen (PINP), a bone-formation marker, was determined using ELISA. A total of 1003 transcripts were upregulated and 159 transcripts were downregulated (more than twofold upregulation or downregulation). Increased expression levels of the inflammation-related genes interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) were confirmed from in the period 4 h to 72 h after LPS administration using real-time PCR. Gene ontogene analysis found four bone-related categories involved in four biological processes: system development, osteoclast differentiation, ossification and bone development. These processes involved 25 upregulated genes. In the KEGG database, we further analyzed the transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) pathway, which is strongly related to osteogenesis. The upregulated bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2) and downregulated inhibitor of DNA binding 4 (Id4) expressions were further confirmed by real-time PCR after LPS stimulation. The osteoblast function was determined through examination of the expression levels of core binding factor 1 (Cbfa1) and osteocalcin (OC) in bone tissues and serum PINP from 4 h to 72 h after LPS administration. The expressions of OC and Cbfa1 decreased 6 h after administration (p < 0.05). Significantly suppressed PINP levels were observed in the later stage (from 8 h to 72 h, p < 0.05) but not in the early stage (4 h or 6 h, p > 0.05) of LPS stimulation. The results of this study suggest that LPS induces elevated expressions of skeletal system development- and osteoclast differentiation-related genes and inflammation genes at an early stage in the bone. The perturbed functions of these two groups of genes may lead to a faint change in osteogenesis at an early stage of LPS stimulation. Suppressed bone formation was found at later stages in response to LPS stimulation.
The world's fourth largest food crop, potato, originates in the Andes. Here, the community composition of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) associated with potato in Andean ecosystems is described for the first time. AMF were studied in potato roots and rhizosphere soil at four different altitudes from 2,658 to 4,075 m above mean sea level (mamsl) and in three plant growth stages (emergence, flowering, and senescence). AMF species were distinguished by sequencing an approx. 1,500 bp nuclear rDNA region. Twenty species of AMF were identified, of which 12 came from potato roots and 15 from rhizosphere soil. Seven species were found in both roots and soil. Interestingly, altitude affected species composition with the highest altitude exhibiting the greatest species diversity. The three most common colonizers of potato roots detected were Funneliformis mosseae, an unknown Claroideoglomus sp., and Rhizophagus irregularis . Notably, the potato-associated AMF diversity observed in this Andean region is much higher than that reported for potato in other ecosystems. Potato plants were colonized by diverse species from 8 of the 11 Glomeromycota families. Identification of the AMF species is important for their potential use in sustainable management practices to improve potato production in the Andean region.
Gametes is generated by the mature cells in reproductive system when biological sexual reproduction occur. The development of vegetative cell, central cell and sperm cell, which is regulated by the inducing silencing mechanisms of DNA methylation and small RNA. The histone modification can make the egg cell and center cell form their own particular hereditary features, and it can also control the state of the sperm chromatin. This review focuses on the latest research advances in the epigenetic regulation in plant gamete development, including DNA methylation, small RNA-induced silencing, gene imprinting, chromatin modification and histone modifications.
Background: The tephritid fruit flies include a number of economically important pests of horticulture, with a large accumulated body of research on their biology and control. Amongst the Tephritidae, the genus Bactrocera, containing over 400 species, presents various species groups of potential utility for genetic studies of speciation, behaviour or pest control. In Australia, there exists a triad of closely-related, sympatric Bactrocera species which do not mate in the wild but which, despite distinct morphologies and behaviours, can be force-mated in the laboratory to produce fertile hybrid offspring. To exploit the opportunities offered by genomics, such as the efficient identification of genetic loci central to pest behaviour and to the earliest stages of speciation, investigators require genomic resources for future investigations. Results: We produced a draft de novo genome assembly of Australia's major tephritid pest species, Bactrocera tryoni. The male genome (650 -700 Mbp) includes approximately 150Mb of interspersed repetitive DNA sequences and 60Mb of satellite DNA. Assessment using conserved core eukaryotic sequences indicated 98% completeness. Over 16,000 MAKER-derived gene models showed a large degree of overlap with other Dipteran reference genomes. The sequence of the ribosomal RNA transcribed unit was also determined. Unscaffolded assemblies of B. neohumeralis and B. jarvisi were then produced; comparison with B. tryoni showed that the species are more closely related than any Drosophila species pair. The similarity of the genomes was exploited to identify 4924 potentially diagnostic indels between the species, all of which occur in non-coding regions. Conclusions: This first draft B. tryoni genome resembles other dipteran genomes in terms of size and putative coding sequences. For all three species included in this study, we have identified a comprehensive set of non-redundant repetitive sequences, including the ribosomal RNA unit, and have quantified the major satellite DNA families. These genetic resources will facilitate the further investigations of genetic mechanisms responsible for the behavioural and morphological differences between these three species and other tephritids. We have also shown how whole genome sequence data can be used to generate simple diagnostic tests between very closely-related species where only one of the species is scaffolded.
Genome analysis which takes into account tumor purity leads to discovery of PTEN as a tumor suppressor gene in high-grade serous ovarian cancer.
Background: The human neuroblastoma cell line, SH-SY5Y, is a commonly used cell line in studies related to neurotoxicity, oxidative stress, and neurodegenerative diseases. Although this cell line is often used as a cellular model for Parkinson's disease, the relevance of this cellular model in the context of Parkinson's disease (PD) and other neurodegenerative diseases has not yet been systematically evaluated. Results: We have used a systems genomics approach to characterize the SH-SY5Y cell line using whole-genome sequencing to determine the genetic content of the cell line and used transcriptomics and proteomics data to determine molecular correlations. Further, we integrated genomic variants using a network analysis approach to evaluate the suitability of the SH-SY5Y cell line for perturbation experiments in the context of neurodegenerative diseases, including PD. Conclusions: The systems genomics approach showed consistency across different biological levels (DNA, RNA and protein concentrations). Most of the genes belonging to the major Parkinson's disease pathways and modules were intact in the SH-SY5Y genome. Specifically, each analysed gene related to PD has at least one intact copy in SH-SY5Y. The disease-specific network analysis approach ranked the genetic integrity of SH-SY5Y as higher for PD than for Alzheimer's disease but lower than for Huntington's disease and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis for loss of function perturbation experiments.
Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com. Fanconi anemia (FA) is a human recessive genetic disease resulting from inactivating mutations in any of 16 FANC (Fanconi) genes. Individuals with FA are at high risk of developmental abnormalities, early bone marrow failure and leukemia. These are followed in the second and subsequent decades by a very high risk of carcinomas of the head and neck and anogenital region, and a small continuing risk of leukemia. In order to characterize base pair-level disease-associated (DA) and population genetic variation in FANC genes and the segregation of this variation in the human population, we identified 2948 unique FANC gene variants including 493 FA DA variants across 57,240 potential base pair variation sites in the 16 FANC genes. We then analyzed the segregation of this variation in the 7578 subjects included in the Exome Sequencing Project (ESP) and the 1000 Genomes Project (1KGP). There was a remarkably high frequency of FA DA variants in ESP/1KGP subjects: at least 1 FA DA variant was identified in 78.5% (5950 of 7578) individuals included in these two studies. Six widely used functional prediction algorithms correctly identified only a third of the known, DA FANC missense variants. We also identified FA DA variants that may be good candidates for different types of mutation-specific therapies. Our results demonstrate the power of direct DNA sequencing to detect, estimate the frequency of and follow the segregation of deleterious genetic variation in human populations.
Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. The nuclear receptor NOR1 is an immediate-early response gene implicated in the transcriptional control of proliferation. Since the expression level of NOR1 is rapidly induced through cAMP response element binding (CREB) protein-dependent promoter activation, we investigated the contribution of histone acetylation to this transient induction. We demonstrate that NOR1 transcription is induced by histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibition and by depletion of HDAC1 and HDAC3. HDAC inhibition activated the NOR1 promoter, increased histone acetylation and augmented the recruitment of phosphorylated CREB to the promoter. Furthermore, HDAC inhibition increased Ser133 phosphorylation of CREB and augmented NOR1 protein stability. These data outline previously unrecognized mechanisms of NOR1 regulation and illustrate a key role for histone acetylation in the rapid induction of NOR1.
All rights received. Eukaryotic communities involved in sewage treatment processes have been investigated by morphological identification, but have not yet been well-characterized using molecular approaches. In the present study, eukaryotic communities were characterized by constructing 18S rRNA gene clone libraries. The phylogenetic affiliations of a total of 843 clones were Alveolata, Fungi, Rhizaria, Euglenozoa, Stramenopiles, Amoebozoa, and Viridiplantae as protozoans and Rotifera, Gastrotricha, and Nematoda as metazoans. Sixty percent of the clones had <97% sequence identity to described eukaryotes, indicating the greater diversity of eukaryotes than previously recognized. A core OTU closely related to Epistylis chrysemydis was identified, and several OTUs were shared by 4–8 libraries. Members of the uncultured lineage LKM11 in Cryptomycota were predominant fungi in sewage treatment processes. This comparative study represents an initial step in furthering understanding of the diversity and role of eukaryotes in sewage treatment processes.
The retrotransposon DIRS-1 is the most abundant retroelement in Dictyostelium discoideum and constitutes the pericentromeric heterochromatin of the six chromosomes in D. discoideum. The vast majority of cellular siRNAs is derived from DIRS-1, suggesting that the element is controlled by RNAi-related mechanisms. We investigated the role of two of the five Argonaute proteins of D. discoideum, AgnA and AgnB, in DIRS-1 silencing. Deletion of agnA resulted in the accumulation of DIRS-1 transcripts, the expression of DIRS-1-encoded proteins, and the loss of most DIRS-1-derived secondary siRNAs. Simultaneously, extrachromosomal single-stranded DIRS-1 DNA accumulated in the cytoplasm of agnA- strains. These DNA molecules appear to be products of reverse transcription and thus could represent intermediate structures before transposition. We further show that transitivity of endogenous siRNAs is impaired in agnA- strains. The deletion of agnB alone had no strong effect on DIRS-1 transposon regulation. However, in agnA-/agnB- double mutant strains strongly reduced accumulation of extrachromosomal DNA compared with the single agnA- strains was observed.
The extant genetic machinery revolves around three interrelated polymers: RNA, DNA and proteins. Two evolutionary views approach this vital connection from opposite perspectives. The RNA World theory posits that life began in a cold prebiotic broth of monomers with the de novo emergence of replicating RNA as functionally self-contained polymer and that subsequent evolution is characterized by RNA → DNA memory takeover and ribozyme → enzyme catalyst takeover. The FeS World theory posits that life began as an autotrophic metabolism in hot volcanic-hydrothermal fluids and evolved with organic products turning into ligands for transition metal catalysts thereby eliciting feedback and feed-forward effects. In this latter context it is posited that the three polymers of the genetic machinery essentially coevolved from monomers through oligomers to polymers, operating functionally first as ligands for ligand-accelerated transition metal catalysis with later addition of base stacking and base pairing, whereby the functional dichotomy between hereditary DNA with stability on geologic time scales and transient, catalytic RNA with stability on metabolic time scales existed since the dawn of the genetic machinery. Both approaches are assessed comparatively for chemical soundness.
Variability in gene expression among genetically identical cells has emerged as a central preoccupation in the study of gene regulation; however, a divide exists between the predictions of molecular models of prokaryotic transcriptional regulation and genome-wide experimental studies suggesting that this variability is indifferent to the underlying regulatory architecture.We constructed a set of promoters in Escherichia coli in which promoter strength, transcription factor binding strength, and transcription factor copy numbers are systematically varied, and used messenger RNA (mRNA) fluorescence in situ hybridization to observe how these changes affected variability in gene expression. Our parameter-free models predicted the observed variability; hence, the molecular details of transcription dictate variability in mRNA expression, and transcriptional noise is specifically tunable and thus represents an evolutionarily accessible phenotypic parameter.
Multivalent molecules with repetitive structures including bacterial capsular polysaccharides and viral capsids elicit antibody responses through B cell receptor (BCR) crosslinking in the absence of T cell help. We report that immunization with these T cell-independent type 2 (TI-2) antigens causes up-regulation of endogenous retrovirus (ERV) RNAs in antigen-specific mouse B cells. These RNAs are detected via a mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS)-dependent RNA sensing pathway or reverse-transcribed and detected via the cGAS-cGAMP-STING pathway, triggering a second, sustained wave of signaling that promotes specific immunoglobulin M production. Deficiency of both MAVS and cGAS, or treatment of MAVS-deficient mice with reverse transcriptase inhibitors, dramatically inhibits TI-2 antibody responses. These findings suggest that ERV and two innate sensing pathways that detect them are integral components of the TI-2 B cell signaling apparatus.
All rights received. A deeper understanding of the microbial community structure is very important in bioremediation for polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins/dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs). However, this has been insufficiently addressed in previous studies. To obtain more information, we pyrosequenced the V4/V5 regions of the 16S rRNA genes of bacterial communities transited from polluted soil to batch microcosms that rapidly degraded high concentrations of octachlorodibenzofuran (OCDF). The analysis results contained an average of 11,842 reads per sample, providing the first detailed description of bacterial communities associated with PCDD/Fs. The community composition markedly changed to be concomitant with the degradation of OCDF, indicating that a distinctive population structure developed rapidly in the microcosm. Although oxygen gas was provided weekly to the microcosm, the growth of potential degraders, Sphingomonas, Pseudomonas, Rhodococcus, and Clostridium, was observed, but in consistently low quantities. While anaerobic Sedimentibacter initially emerged as an abundant pioneer, several aerobic participants, such as the genera Brevundimonas, Pseudoxanthomonas, and Lysobacter, exhibited a large increase in their 16S rRNA gene copies within the timeframe, which showed a temporal population dynamic, and indicated their collaborative contributions to the degradation of OCDF under hypoxic conditions. These results have provided a deeper insight into the microbial community structure and population dynamics of the OCDF-degrading microcosm.
All rights received.Laboratory-scale acidophilic nitrifying sequencing-batch reactors (ANSBRs) were constructed by seeding with sewageactivated sludge and cultivating with ammonium-containing acidic mineral medium (pH 4.0) with or without a trace amount of yeast extract. In every batch cycle, the pH varied between 2.7 and 4.0, and ammonium was completely converted to nitrate. Attempts to detect nitrifying functional genes in the fully acclimated ANSBRs by PCR with previously designed primers mostly gave negative results. 16S rRNA gene-targeted PCR and a subsequent denaturating gradient gel electrophoresis analysis revealed that a marked change occurred in the bacterial community during the overall period of operation, in which members of the candidate phylum TM7 and the class Gammaproteobacteria became predominant at the fully acclimated stage. This result was fully supported by a 16S rRNA gene clone library analysis, as the major phylogenetic groups of clones detected (>5% of the total) were TM7 (33%), Gammaproteobacteria (37%), Actinobacteria (10%), and Alphaproteobacteria (8%). Fluorescence in situ hybridization with specific probes also demonstrated the prevalence of TM7 bacteria and Gammaproteobacteria. These results suggest that previously unknown nitrifying microorganisms may play a major role in ANSBRs; however, the ecophysiological significance of the TM7 bacteria predominating in this process remains unclear.
All rights received. The microbial monitoring of drinking water production systems is essential to assure water quality and minimize possible risks. However, the comparative impact of microbes from the surrounding aquifer and of those established within drinking water wells on water parameters remains poorly understood. High pressure jetting is a routine method to impede well clogging by fine sediments and also biofilms. In the present study, bacterial communities were investigated in a drinking water production system before, during, and after hydraulic purging. Variations were observed in bacterial communities between different wells of the same production system before maintenance, despite them having practically identical water chemistries. This may have reflected the distinct usage practices of the different wells, and also local aquifer heterogeneity. Hydraulic jetting of one well preferentially purged a subset of the dominating taxa, including lineages related to Diaphorobacter, Nitrospira, Sphingobium, Ralstonia, Alkanindiges, Janthinobacterium, and Pseudomonas spp, suggesting their tendency for growth in well-associated biofilms. Lineages of potential drinking water concern (i.e. Legionellaceae, Pseudomonadaceae, and Acinetobacter spp.) reacted distinctly to hydraulic jetting. Bacterial diversity was markedly reduced in drinking water 2 weeks after the cleaning procedure. The results of the present study provide a better understanding of drinking water wells as a microbial habitat, as well as their role in the microbiology of drinking water systems.
Members of the mammalian tristetraprolin family of CCCH tandem zinc finger proteins can bind to certain AU-rich elements (AREs) in mRNAs, leading to their deadenylation and destabilization. Mammals express three or four members of this family, but Drosophila melanogaster and other insects appear to contain a single gene, Tis11. We found that recombinant Drosophila Tis11 protein could bind to ARE-containing RNA oligonucleotides with low nanomolar affinity. Remarkably, co-expression in mammalian cells with "target" RNAs demonstrated that Tis11 could promote destabilization of ARE-containing mRNAs and that this was partially dependent on a conserved C-terminal sequence resembling the mammalian NOT1 binding domain. Drosophila Tis11 promoted both deadenylation and decay of a target transcript in this heterologous cell system. We used chromosome deletion/duplication and P element insertion to produce two types of Tis11 deficiency in adult flies, both of which were viable and fertile. To address the hypothesis that Tis11 deficiency would lead to the abnormal accumulation of potential target transcripts, we analyzed gene expression in adult flies by deep mRNA sequencing. We identified 69 transcripts from 56 genes that were significantly up-regulated more than 1.5-fold in both types of Tis11-deficient flies. Ten of the up-regulated transcripts encoded probable proteases, but many other functional classes of proteins were represented. Many of the up-regulated transcripts contained potential binding sites for tristetraprolin family member proteins that were conserved in other Drosophila species. Tis11 is thus an ARE-binding, mRNA-destabilizing protein that may play a role in post-transcriptional gene expression in Drosophila and other insects.
Multivalent molecules with repetitive structures including bacterial capsular polysaccharides and viral capsids elicit antibody responses through B cell receptor (BCR) crosslinking in the absence of T cell help. We report that immunization with these T cell-independent type 2 (TI-2) antigens causes up-regulation of endogenous retrovirus (ERV) RNAs in antigen-specific mouse B cells. These RNAs are detected via a mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS)-dependent RNA sensing pathway or reverse-transcribed and detected via the cGAS-cGAMP-STING pathway, triggering a second, sustained wave of signaling that promotes specific immunoglobulin M production. Deficiency of both MAVS and cGAS, or treatment of MAVS-deficient mice with reverse transcriptase inhibitors, dramatically inhibits TI-2 antibody responses. These findings suggest that ERV and two innate sensing pathways that detect them are integral components of the TI-2 B cell signaling apparatus.
; licensee BioMed Central.Chromatin structure and epigenetic modifications have been shown to involve in the co-transcriptional splicing of RNA precursors. In particular, some studies have suggested that some types of histone modifications (HMs) may participate in the alternative splicing and function as exon marks. However, most existing studies pay attention to the qualitative relationship between epigenetic modifications and exon inclusion. The quantitative analysis that reveals to what extent each type of epigenetic modification is responsible for exon inclusion is very helpful for us to understand the splicing process. Results: In this paper, we focus on the quantitative analysis of HMs' influence on the inclusion of cassette exons (CEs) into mature RNAs. With the high-throughput ChIP-seq and RNA-seq data obtained from ENCODE website, we modeled the association of HMs with CE inclusions by logistic regression whose coefficients are meaningful and interpretable for us to reveal the effect of each type of HM. Three type of HMs, H3K36me3, H3K9me3 and H4K20me1, were found to play major role in CE inclusions. HMs' effect on CE inclusions is conservative across cell types, and does not depend on the expression levels of the genes hosting CEs. HMs located in the flanking regions of CEs were also taken into account in our analysis, and HMs within bounded flanking regions were shown to affect moderately CE inclusions. Moreover, we also found that HMs on CEs whose length is approximately close to nucleosomal-DNA length affect greatly on CE inclusion. Conclusions: We suggested that a few types of HMs correlate closely to alternative splicing and perhaps function jointly with splicing machinery to regulate the inclusion level of exons. Our findings are helpful to understand HMs' effect on exon definition, as well as the mechanism of co-transcriptional splicing.
; licensee BioMed Central.Background: Host SAM domain and HD domain-containing protein 1 (SAMHD1) suppresses reverse transcription kinetics of HIV-1 in nondividing cells such as macrophages by hydrolyzing and nearly depleting cellular dNTPs, which are the substrates of viral reverse transcriptase (RT). However, unlike HIV-1, HIV-2 and SIVsm encode viral protein X (Vpx), which counteracts the dNTPase activity of SAMHD1 and elevates dNTP concentration, allowing the viruses to replicate under abundant dNTP conditions even in nondividing cells. Findings: Here we tested whether RTs of these Vpx coding and noncoding lentiviruses display different enzyme kinetic profiles in response to dNTP concentrations. For this test, we characterized an extensive collection of RTs from 7 HIV-1 strains, 4 HIV-2 strains and 7 SIV strains, and determined their steady-state kinetic parameters. The Km values of all HIV-1 RTs were consistently low and close to the low dNTP concentrations found in macrophages. However, the Km values of SIV and HIV-2 RTs were not only higher than those of HIV-1 RTs but also varied significantly, indicating that HIV-2/SIV RTs require higher dNTP concentrations for efficient DNA synthesis, compared to HIV-1 RT. However, the Kcat values of all eighteen lentiviral RTs were very similar. Conclusions: Our biochemical analysis supports the hypothesis that the enzymological properties, particularly, Km values, of lentivirus RTs, are mechanistically tied with the cellular dNTP availability in nondividing target cells, which is controlled by SAMHD1 and Vpx.
Genome-wide studies have revealed that genes commonly have a high density ofRNApolymerase II just downstream of the transcription start site. This has raised the possibility that genes are commonly regulated by transcriptional elongation, but this remains largely untested in vivo , particularly in vertebrates. Here, we show that the proximal promoter from the Rhox5 homeobox gene recruits polymerase II and begins elongating in all tissues and cell lines that we tested, but it only completes elongation in a tissue-specific and developmentally regulated manner. Relief of the elongation block is associated with recruitment of the elongation factor P-TEFb, the co-activator GRIP1, the chromatin remodeling factor BRG1, and specific histone modifications. We provide evidence that two mechanisms relieve the elongation block at the proximal promoter: demethylation and recruitment of androgen receptor. Together, our findings support a model in which promoter proximal pausing helps confer tissue-specific and developmental gene expression through a mechanism regulated by DNA demethylation-dependent nuclear hormone receptor recruitment.
In eukaryotes combinatorial activation of transcription is an important component of gene regulation. In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Adr1-Cat8 and Adr1-Oaf1/Pip2 are pairs of activators that act together to regulate two diverse sets of genes. Transcription activation of both sets is regulated positively by the yeast AMP-activated protein kinase homolog, Snf1, in response to low glucose or the presence of a non-fermentable carbon source and negatively by two redundant 14-3-3 isoforms, Bmh1 and Bmh2. Bmh regulates the function of these pairs at a post-promoter binding step by direct binding to Adr1. However, how Bmh regulates transcription after activator binding remains unknown. In the present study we analyzed Bmhmediated regulation of two sets of genes activated independently by these pairs of activators. We report that Bmh inhibits mRNA synthesis when the second activator is absent. Using gene fusions we show that Bmh binding to the Adr1 regulatory domain inhibits an Adr1 activation domain but not a heterologous activation domain or artificially recruited Mediator, consistent with Bmh acting at a step in transcription downstream of activator binding.Bmhinhibits the assembly and the function of a preinitiation complex (PIC). Gene expression studies suggest thatBmhregulates Adr1 activity through the coactivators Mediator and Swi/Snf. Mediator recruitment appeared to occur normally, but PIC formation and function were defective, suggesting that Bmh inhibits a step between Mediator recruitment and PIC activation.
The instability of regulatory T (Treg) cells is involved in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases and also highlights safety concerns with regard to clinical Treg cell therapy. Cell-intrinsic molecular events linked to this Treg cell instability in vivo cells, which leads to safety concerns regardingare still obscure. Here we developed a novel luciferase-based reporter system and performed an unbiased screening for kinases that potentially modulate Foxp3 function. We found that the active form of COT/Tpl2 specifically inhibits the DNA binding activity of Foxp3 through a MEK-ERK-dependent pathway. Moreover, Treg cell-specific expression of activated MEK1 led to dysregulation of Treg function and instability of Foxp3 expression in vivo. Our results support the hypothesis that outside inflammatory signals act through the COT/Tpl2-MEK-ERK signaling pathway to destabilize the Treg lineage.
Background: The transcription factor Hes3 regulates the growth of neural and brain cancer stem cells.Results: Hes3 regulates growth, gene expression, evoked insulin release in cultured insulinoma cells, and sensitivity to streptozotocin in vivo.Conclusion: Hes3 is a novel regulator of cellular functions of importance in diabetes.
; licensee BioMed Central.Background: World-wide, the notable expansion of HIV/AIDS treatment programs in resource-limited settings has lead to an increasing number of patients in need of second-line cART. To adequately address and prepare for this scenario, critical assessments of the outcomes of second-line cART are particularly relevant in settings where monitoring strategies may be inadequate. We evaluated virologic outcomes of second-line combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) among HIV-infected individuals from Brazil. Methods: This study was conducted at the Instituto Nacional de Infectologia Evandro Chagas, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, at Rio de Janeiro, Brazio. For this study we included all patients who started first-line and second-line cART between 2000 and 2013. Second-line cART required a switch in the anchor drug of first-line cART. We evaluated time from second-line start to virologic failure and factors associated with increased risk of failure using multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression models. Results: Among the 1,311 patients who started first-line cART a total of 386 patients (29.5%) initiated second-line cART, out of which 35.0% and 60.6% switched from their first-line to their second-line cART when their HIV RNA was undetectable and after documented virologic failure, respectively. At second line cART initiation, median age was 38 years [interquartile range (IQR): 31-45years]. Median CD4 count was significantly different for patients starting second-line cART undetectable [412 cells/mm3 (IQR: 240-617)] compared to those starting second-line cART after documented virologic failure [230 cells/mm3 (IQR: 118-322.5)] (p < 0.01). Median time from second-line cART initiation to failure was also significantly different for patients starting second-line cART undetectable compared to those who with documented virologic failure (log-rank test p < 0.01). Multivariable Cox models showed that younger age, lower education, and HIV RNA level were independently associated with an increased hazard of second-line failure among those with documented virologic failure at start of second-line cART. Conclusions: We have shown that in a middle-income country with universal access to cART, having a detectable HIV RNA at the start of second-line cART as well as younger age and lower education negatively impact second-line outcomes. Our findings could guide HIV treatment efforts as to which strategies would help maximize the durability of these regimens.
The ethiology of colon cancer is largely dependent on inflammation driven oxidative stress. The analysis of 8-oxodeoxyguanosine (8-oxodGuo) level in leukocyte DNA of healthy controls (138 individuals), patients with benign adenomas (AD, 137 individuals) and with malignant carcinomas (CRC, 169 individuals) revealed a significant increase in the level of 8-oxodGuo in leukocyte DNA of AD and CRC patients in comparison to controls. The counteracting mechanism is base excision repair, in which OGG1 and PARP-1 play a key role. We investigated the level of PARP-1 and OGG1 mRNA and protein in diseased and marginal, normal tissues taken from AD and CRC patients and in leukocytes taken from the patients as well as from healthy subjects. In colon tumors the PARP-1 mRNA level was higher than in unaffected colon tissue and in polyp tissues. A high positive correlation was found between PARP-1 and OGG1 mRNA levels in all investigated tissues. This suggests reciprocal influence of PARP-1 and OGG1 on their expression and stability, and may contribute to progression of colon cancer. PARP-1 and OGG1 proteins level was several fold higher in polyps and CRC in comparison to normal colon tissues. Individuals bearing the Cys326Cys genotype of OGG1 were characterized by higher PARP-1 protein level in diseased tissues than the Ser326Cys and Ser326Ser genotypes. Aforementioned result may suggest that the diseased cells with polymorphic OGG1 recruit more PARP protein, which is necessary to remove 8-oxodGuo. Thus, patients with decreased activity of OGG1/polymorphism of the OGG1 gene and higher 8-oxodGuo level may be more susceptible to treatment with PARP-1 inhibitors.
Background: The HIV-1 pandemic is not the result of a static pathogen but a large genetically diverse and dynamic viral population. The virus is characterized by a highly mutable genome rendering efforts to design a universal vaccine a significant challenge and drives the emergence of drug resistant variants upon antiviral pressure. Gaining a comprehensive understanding of the mutational tolerance of each HIV-1 genomic position is therefore of critical importance. Results: Here we combine high-density mutagenesis with the power of next-generation sequencing to gauge the replication capacity and therefore mutational tolerability of single point mutations across the entire HIV-1 genome. We were able to achieve the evaluation of point mutational effects on viral replicative capacity for 5,553 individual HIV-1 nucleotide positions - representing 57% of the viral genome. Replicative capacity was assessed at 3,943 nucleotide positions for a single alternate base change, 1,459 nucleotide positions for two alternate base changes, and 151 nucleotide positions for all three possible alternate base changes. This resulted in the study of how a total of 7,314 individual point mutations impact HIV-1 replication on a single experimental platform. We further utilize the dataset for a focused structural analysis on a capsid inhibitor binding pocket. Conclusion: The approach presented here can be applied to any pathogen that can be genetically manipulated in a laboratory setting. Furthermore, the methodology can be utilized under externally applied selection conditions, such as drug or immune pressure, to identify genetic elements that contribute to drug or host interactions, and therefore mutational routes of pathogen resistance and escape.
LRRC4/NGL-2 (Leucine rich repeat containing 4/Netrin-G ligand-2), a relatively specific expressed gene in brain tissue, is a member of the LRRC4/ NGL (netrin-G ligand) family and belongs to the superfamily of LRR proteins. LRRC4/NGL-2 regulates neurite outgrowth and lamina-specific dendritic segmentation, suggesting that LRRC4/NGL-2 is important for the development of the nervous system. In addition, LRRC4/NGL-2 has been identified as a tumor suppressor gene. The overexpression of LRRC4/NGL-2 suppresses glioma cell growth, angiogenesis and invasion through complicated signaling regulation networks. LRRC4/NGL-2 also has the ability to form multiphase loops with miRNA, transcription factors and gene methylation modification; the loss of LRRC4/NGL-2 function may be an important event in multiple biological processes in gliomas. In summary, LRRC4/NGL-2 is a critical gene in the normal development and tumorigenesis of the nervous system.
ECSIT (evolutionarily conserved signaling intermediate in Toll pathways) is known as a multifunctional regulator in different signals, including Toll-like receptors (TLRs), TGF-β, and BMP. Here, we report a new regulatory role of ECSIT in TLR4-mediated signal. By LPS stimulation, ECSIT formed a high molecular endogenous complex including TAK1 and TRAF6, in which ECSIT interacted with each protein and regulated TAK1 activity, leading to the activation of NF-κB. ECSIT-knockdown THP-1 (ECSITKD THP-1) cells exhibited severe impairments in NF-κB activity, cytokine production, and NF-κB-dependent gene expression, whereas those were dramatically restored by reintroduction of wild type (WT) ECSIT gene. Interestingly, ECSIT mutants, which lack a specific interacting domain for either TAK1 or TRAF6, could not restore these activities. Moreover, no significant changes in both NF-κB activity and cytokine production induced by TLR4 could be seen in TAK1KD or TRAF6KD THP-1 cells transduced by WT ECSIT, strongly suggesting the essential requirement of TAK1-ECSIT-TRAF6 complex in TLR4 signaling. Taken together, our data demonstrate that the ECSIT complex, including TAK1 and TRAF6, plays a pivotal role in TLR4-mediated signals to activate NF-κB.
Background: Molecular techniques have uncovered vast numbers of organisms in the cystic fibrosis (CF) airways, the clinical significance of which is yet to be determined. The aim of this study was to describe and compare the microbial communities of the lower airway of clinically stable children with CF and children without CF. Methods: Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and paired oropharyngeal swabs from clinically stable children with CF (n=13) and BAL from children without CF (n=9) were collected. DNA was isolated, the 16S rRNA regions amplified, fragmented, biotinylated and hybridised to a 16S rRNA microarray. Patient medical and demographic information was recorded and standard microbiological culture was performed. Results: A diverse bacterial community was detected in the lower airways of children with CF and children without CF. The airway microbiome of clinically stable children with CF and children without CF were significantly different as measured by Shannon's Diversity Indices (p=0.001; t test) and Principle coordinate analysis (p=0.01; Adonis test). Overall the CF airway microbial community was more variable and had a less even distribution than the microbial community in the airways of children without CF. We highlighted several bacteria of interest, particularly Prevotella veroralis, CW040 and a Corynebacterium, which were of significantly differential abundance between the CF and non-CF lower airways. Both Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Streptococcus pneumoniae culture abundance were found to be associated with CF airway microbial community structure. The CF upper and lower airways were found to have a broadly similar microbial milieu. Conclusion: The microbial communities in the lower airways of stable children with CF and children without CF show significant differences in overall diversity. These discrepancies indicate a disruption of the airway microflora occurring early in life in children with CF.
Background: Staphylococcus aureus is a human pathogen responsible for substantial morbidity and mortality through its ability to cause a number of human infections including bacteremia, pneumonia and soft tissue infections. Of great concern is the emergence and dissemination of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus strains (MRSA) that are resistant to nearly all β-lactams. The emergence of the USA300 MRSA genetic background among community associated S. aureus infections (CA-MRSA) in the USA was followed by the disappearance of USA400 CA-MRSA isolates. Results: To gain a greater understanding of the potential fitness advantages and virulence capacity of S. aureus USA300 clones, we performed whole genome sequencing of 15 USA300 and 4 USA400 clinical isolates. A comparison of representative genomes of the USA300 and USA400 pulsotypes indicates a number of differences in mobile genome elements. We examined the in vitro gene expression profiles by microarray hybridization and the in vivo transcriptomes during lung infection in mice of a USA300 and a USA400 MRSA strain by performing complete genome qRT-PCR analysis. The unique presence and increased expression of 6 exotoxins in USA300 (12- to 600-fold) compared to USA400 may contribute to the increased virulence of USA300 clones. Importantly, we also observed the up-regulation of prophage genes in USA300 (compared with USA400) during mouse lung infection (including genes encoded by both prophages φSa2usa and φSa3usa), suggesting that these prophages may play an important role in vivo by contributing to the elevated virulence characteristic of the USA300 clone. Conclusions: We observed differences in the genetic content of USA300 and USA400 strains, as well as significant differences of in vitro and in vivo gene expression of mobile elements in a lung pneumonia model. This is the first study to document the global transcription differences between USA300 and USA400 strains during both in vitro and in vivo growth.
; licensee BioMed Central Ltd.Background: Affymetrix microarray technology allows one to investigate expression of thousands of genes simultaneously upon a variety of conditions. In a popular U133A microarray platform, the expression of 37% of genes is measured by more than one probeset. The discordant expression observed for two different probesets that match the same gene is a widespread phenomenon which is usually underestimated, ignored or disregarded. Results: Here we evaluate the prevalence of discordant expression in data collected using Affymetrix HG-U133A microarray platform. In U133A, about 30% of genes annotated by two different probesets demonstrate a substantial correlation between independently measured expression values. To our surprise, sorting the probesets according to the nature of the discrepancy in their expression levels allowed the classification of the respective genes according to their fundamental functional properties, including observed enrichment by tissue-specific transcripts and alternatively spliced variants. On another hand, an absence of discrepancies in probesets that simultaneously match several different genes allowed us to pinpoint non-expressed pseudogenes and gene groups with highly correlated expression patterns. Nevertheless, in many cases, the nature of discordant expression of two probesets that match the same transcript remains unexplained. It is possible that these probesets report differently regulated sets of transcripts, or, in best case scenario, two different sets of transcripts that represent the same gene. Conclusion: The majority of absolute gene expression values collected using Affymetrix microarrays may not be suitable for typical interpretative downstream analysis.
Male and female rats (26-day-old) were exposed to 0.0, 0.4, 4 or 40. mg/kg body weight silver acetate (AgAc) in drinking water for 10 weeks prior to and during mating. Sperm-positive females remained within their dose groups and were exposed to silver acetate during gestation and lactation. At postnatal day 26, the effect of silver ions on the developing F1 generation rat thymus was evaluated at the transcriptional level using whole-genome microarrays. Gene expression profiling analyses identified a dozen differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in each dose group using a loose criterion of fold change (FC) >1.5 and unadjusted p<. 0.05, regardless of whether the analysis was conducted within each gender group or with both gender groups combined. No dose-dependent effect was observed on the number of DEGs. In addition, none of these genes had a false discovery rate (FDR) <0.05 after correction for multiple testing. These results in combination with the observation that thymus-to-body-weight ratios were not affected and no histopathological abnormalities were identified indicate that in utero exposure to silver ions up to 26.0. mg/kg (equivalent to 40.0. mg/kg silver acetate) did not have an adverse effect on the developing thymus.
A metabolic engineering perspective which views recombinant protein expression as a multistep pathway allows us to move beyond vector design and identify the downstream rate limiting steps in expression. In E.coli these are typically at the translational level and the supply of precursors in the form of energy, amino acids and nucleotides. Further recombinant protein production triggers a global cellular stress response which feedback inhibits both growth and product formation. Countering this requires a system level analysis followed by a rational host cell engineering to sustain expression for longer time periods. Another strategy to increase protein yields could be to divert the metabolic flux away from biomass formation and towards recombinant protein production. This would require a growth stoppage mechanism which does not affect the metabolic activity of the cell or the transcriptional or translational efficiencies. Finally cells have to be designed for efficient export to prevent buildup of proteins inside the cytoplasm and also simplify downstream processing. The rational and the high throughput strategies that can be used for the construction of such improved host cell platforms for recombinant protein expression is the focus of this review.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress plays an important role in the decline in pancreatic β cell function and mass observed in type 2 diabetes. Here, we developed a novel β cell-based high-throughput screening assay to identify small molecules that protect β cells against ER stress-induced cell death. Mouse βTC6 cells were treated with the ER stressor tunicamycin to induce ER stress, and cell death was measured as a reduction in cellular ATP. A collection of 17600 compounds was screened for molecules that promote β cell survival. Of the approximately 80 positive hits, two selected compounds were able to increase the survival of human primary β cells and rodent β cell lines subjected to ER stressors including palmitate, a free fatty acid of pathological relevance to diabetes. These compounds also restored ER stress-impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion responses. We show that the compounds promote β cell survival by reducing the expression of key genes of the unfolded protein response and apoptosis, thus alleviating ER stress. Identification of small molecules that prevent ER stress-induced β cell dysfunction and death may provide a new modality for the treatment of diabetes.
Pattern recognition receptors contain a binding domain for pathogen-associated molecular patterns coupled to a signaling domain that regulates transcription of host immune response genes. Here, a novel mechanism that links pathogen recognition to channel activation and downstream signaling is proposed. We demonstrate that an intracellular sodium channel variant, human macrophage SCN5A, initiates signaling and transcription through a calcium-dependent isoform of adenylate cyclase, ADCY8, and the transcription factor, ATF2. Pharmacological stimulation with a channel agonist or treatment with cytoplasmic poly(I:C), a mimic of viral dsRNA, activates this pathway to regulate expression of SP100-related genes and interferon β. Electrophysiological analysis reveals that the SCN5A variant mediates nonselective outward currents and a small, but detectable, inward current. Intracellular poly(I:C) markedly augments an inward voltage-sensitive sodium current and inhibits the outward nonselective current. These results suggest human macrophage SCN5A initiates signaling in an innate immune pathway relevant to antiviral host defense. It is postulated that SCN5A is a novel pathogen sensor and that this pathway represents a channel activation-dependent mechanism of transcriptional regulation.
Mucin 1 (MUC1) is overexpressed in various human malignant tumors and its expression is correlated with a poor prognosis. MUC1engages in signal transduction by interacting with receptors for growth and differentiation factors, which contributes to the growth and survival of cancer cells. However, the mechanism by which MUC1 promotes cancer cell invasion remains unclear. Microarray analysis revealed that expression of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) was elevated in MUC1-overexpressing cells. Furthermore, up- and down-modulation of MUC1 expression was clearly correlated with the change of uPA expression. An immunochemical study showed that the distribution of uPAcoincided with that ofMUC1in varioushumancancer tissues. The MUC1 C-terminal domain (MUC1-CD) was associated with nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) p65 in MUC1-expressing cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays demonstrated that MUC1-CDexisted with NF-κB p65 on the uPA promoter. Luciferase assays indicated that the uPA transcriptional activity was correlated with the level of MUC1 expression and that this MUC1-enhancing effect on the uPA transcription was abolished by introduction of mutations into the NF-κBbinding sites on theuPA promoter. These results indicate that formation of the MUC1-CD and NF-κBp65 complex enhanced nuclear translocation of NF-κB p65 and subsequent occupancy of NF-κB binding region on the uPA promoter, leading to elevated transcription of uPA. We also demonstrated that uPA induced by MUC1 enhanced the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and -9 activities, and consequently promoted cancer cell invasion. Thus, aMUC1co-operating NF-κB signaling pathway plays a critical role in cancer cell invasion in MUC1-expressing cells.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
############ Abstract is not registered ############
© 2014 Macmillan Publishers Limited.The influenza virus polymerase transcribes or replicates the segmented RNA genome (viral RNA) into viral messenger RNA or full-length copies. To initiate RNA synthesis, the polymerase binds to the conserved 39 and 59 extremities of the viral RNA. Here we present the crystal structure of the heterotrimeric bat influenza A polymerase, comprising subunits PA, PB1 and PB2, bound to its viral RNA promoter. PB1 contains a canonical RNA polymerase fold that is stabilized by large interfaces with PA and PB2. The PA endonuclease and the PB2 cap-binding domain, involved in transcription by cap-snatching, form protrusions facing each other across a solvent channel. The 59 extremity of the promoter folds into a compact hook that is bound in a pocket formed by PB1 and PA close to the polymerase active site. This structure lays the basis for an atomic-level mechanistic understanding of the many functions of influenza polymerase, and opens new opportunities for anti-influenza drug design.
Influenza virus polymerase uses a capped primer, derived by 'cap-snatching' from host pre-messenger RNA, to transcribe its RNA genome into mRNA and a stuttering mechanism to generate the poly(A) tail. By contrast, genome replication is unprimed and generates exact full-length copies of the template. Here we use crystal structures of bat influenza A and human influenza B polymerases (FluA and FluB), bound to the viral RNApromoter, to give mechanistic insight into these distinct processes. In the FluA structure, a loop analogous to the priming loop of flavivirus polymerases suggests that influenza could initiate unprimed template replication by a similar mechanism. Comparing the FluA and FluB structures suggests that cap-snatching involves in situ rotation of the PB2 cap-binding domain to direct the capped primer first towards the endonuclease and then into the polymerase active site. The polymerase probably undergoes considerable conformational changes to convert the observed pre-initiation state into the active initiation and elongation states.
AID mis-targeting is poorly understood but contributes significantly to B cell genome instability. Two new papers in Cell reveal that AID mistargeting occurs primarily in gene bodies within a nuclear microenvironment characterized by high levels of transcriptional activity, interconnected transcriptional regulatory elements, and overlapping sense and antisense (convergent) transcription.
DNA isolation is a crucial step of conducting genetic studies in any organism. However, this process is quite difficult when studying fungi because of the need to damage the fungal cell walls of specific structures. In this study, we developed a method for the rapid and efficient isolation of fungal DNA based on simultaneous mechanical and enzymatic cell wall degradation. There are several typical modifications of the standard phenol-chloroform DNA extraction method. This method can be modified to degrade the fungal cell wall. The first step of the presented DNA extraction included manual homogenization in modified lysis buffer. Next, enzymatic digestion using 2 enzymes was conducted, including lyticase and proteinase K. To carefully select the most favorable conditions, we developed an economical, rapid, and reliable method for fungal DNA extraction that ensures both high efficiency and proper purity, which are essential for further analyses.
The formation of R-loops is a natural consequence of the transcription process, caused by invasion of the DNA duplex by nascent transcripts. These structures have been considered rare transcriptional by-products with potentially harmful effects on genome integrity owing to the fragility of the displacedDNAcoding strand1.However, R-loopsmay also possess beneficial effects, as their widespread formation has been detected overCpGisland promoters in human genes2,3. Furthermore, wehave previously shownthatR-loops are particularly enriched overG-rich terminator elements.These facilitateRNApolymerase II (Pol II) pausing before efficient termination4. Here we reveal an unanticipated link between R-loops andRNA-interferencedependentH3K9me2 formation over pause-site termination regions in mammalian protein-coding genes. We show that R-loops induce antisense transcriptionover these pause elements,which in turn leads to the generation of double-stranded RNA and the recruitment of DICER,AGO1,AGO2and theG9a histone lysinemethyltransferase. Consequently, an H3K9me2 repressive mark is formed and heterochromatin protein 1 γ (HP1γ) is recruited, which reinforces Pol II pausing before efficient transcriptional termination.We predict that R-loops promote a chromatin architecture that defines the termination region for a substantial subset of mammalian genes.
############ Abstract is not registered ############
Reprogramming to iPSCs resets the epigenome of somatic cells, including the reversal of X chromosome inactivation. We sought to gain insight into the steps underlying the reprogramming process by examining the means by which reprogramming leads to X chromosome reactivation (XCR). Analyzing single cells in situ, we found that hallmarks of the inactive X (Xi) change sequentially, providing a direct readout of reprogramming progression. Several epigenetic changes on the Xi occur in the inverse order of developmental X inactivation, whereas others are uncoupled from this sequence. Among the latter, DNA methylation has an extraordinary long persistence on the Xi during reprogramming, and, like Xist expression, is erased only after pluripotency genes are activated. Mechanistically, XCR requires both DNA demethylation and Xist silencing, ensuring that only cells undergoing faithful reprogramming initiate XCR. Our study defines the epigenetic state of multiple sequential reprogramming intermediates and establishes a paradigm for studying cell fate transitions during reprogramming.
The mechanism by which cells undergo death determines whether dying cells trigger inflammatory responses or remain immunologically silent. Mitochondria play a central role in the induction of cell death, as well as in immune signaling pathways. Here, we identify a mechanism by which mitochondria and downstream proapoptotic caspases regulate the activation of antiviral immunity. In the absence of active caspases, mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization by Bax and Bak results in the expression of type I interferons (IFNs). This induction is mediated by mitochondrial DNA-dependent activation of the cGAS/STING pathway and results in the establishment of a potent state of viral resistance. Our results show that mitochondria have the capacity to simultaneously expose a cell-intrinsic inducer of the IFN response and to inactivate this response in a caspase-dependent manner. This mechanism provides a dual control, which determines whether mitochondria initiate an immunologically silent or a proinflammatory type of cell death.
As widely recognized, agarwood formation in Aquilaria trees is induced by external wounding. Because agarwood usually harbors specific microbes, the function of microbes in agarwood formation has been debated for almost a century. In this study, two wounding methods, the burning-chisel-drilling method (BCD) and the whole-tree agarwood-inducing method (Agar-Wit), were used under the non-contamination of environmental microorganisms. After pyrosequencing the small rRNA subunits of the wounds induced by the BCD and Agar-Wit, no substantial variation was observed either in fungal and bacterial enrichment and diversity or in the relative abundances of taxa. By contrast, significant variations in fungal and bacterial communities were detected following the partial tree pruning (PTP)-wounding. The wound-induced sesquiterpene biosynthesis and vessel-occlusion formation, however, were found to be similar in all types of wounded trunks. We thus infer that wounding in the absence of variations in microbial communities may induce agarwood formation. This result does not support the long-standing notion that agarwood formation depends on microbes.
The antibody gene mutator activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) promiscuously damages oncogenes, leading to chromosomal translocations and tumorigenesis. Why nonimmunoglobulin loci are susceptible to AID activity is unknown. Here, we study AID-mediated lesions in the context of nuclear architecture and the B cell regulome. We show that AID targets are not randomly distributed across the genome but are predominantly grouped within super-enhancers and regulatory clusters. Unexpectedly, in these domains, AID deaminates active promoters and eRNA+ enhancers interconnected in some instances over megabases of linear chromatin. Using genome editing, we demonstrate that 3D-linked targets cooperate to recruit AID-mediated breaks. Furthermore, a comparison of hypermutation in mouse B cells, AID-induced kataegis in human lymphomas, and translocations in MEFs reveals that AID damages different genes in different cell types. Yet, in all cases, the targets are predominantly associated with topological complex, highly transcribed super-enhancers, demonstrating that these compartments are key mediators of AID recruitment.
Half-smooth tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis) is an important aquaculture flatfish in China. Cytogenetic analysis has revealed that its sex determination system is female heterogametic (ZZ/ZW). The W chromosome is morphologically larger and has been considered evolutionarily younger than any other chromosome in the set. However, the genetic origin and evolution process of this neo-chromosome remains unclear. In this study, 2 tandem arrays of rRNA genes were chosen to address this question. Both the major rDNA (18S rDNA) and the minor rDNA (5S rDNA) were located on the C. semilaevis chromosomes by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Six 18S rDNA signals were observed on the centromeric regions of 3 pairs of autosomes in both males and females. In females, there was an additional 18S rDNA signal mapping to the telomeric region of the W chromosome long arm. With respect to the 5S rDNA, 12 signals were mapped to the centromeric regions of six pairs of autosomes. Two-color FISH further confirmed that the two pairs of the 5S rDNA signals were correspondingly located at the same positions of the same autosomes as those of the 18S rDNA signals. These results allowed us to speculate about the evolution process of the W chromosome. Chromosome fusions and repetitive sequence accumulations might have occurred in C. semilaevis. The synteny and non-synteny of C. semilaevis 18S rDNA and 5S rDNA might imply the original and evolutionary characteristics of this species. These findings will facilitate studies on karyotype evolution of the order Pleuronectiformes.
DNA methylation changes contribute to bladder carcinogenesis. Trihalomethanes (THM), a class of disinfection by-products, are associated with increased urothelial bladder cancer (UBC) risk. THM exposure in animal models produces DNA hypomethylation. We evaluated the relationship of LINE-1 5-methylcytosine levels (LINE-1%5mC) as outcome of long-term THM exposure among controls and as an effect modifier in the association between THM exposure and UBC risk. We used a case-control study of UBC conducted in Spain. We obtained personal lifetime residential THM levels and measured LINE-1%5mC by pyrosequencing in granulocyte DNA from blood samples in 548 incident cases and 559 hospital controls. Two LINE-1%5mC clusters (above and below 64%) were identified through unsupervised hierarchical cluster analysis. The association between THM levels and LINE-1%5mC was evaluated with β regression analyses and logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (OR) adjusting for covariables. LINE-1%5mC change between percentiles 75th and 25th of THM levels was 1.8% (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.1, 3.4%) among controls. THM levels above vs. below the median (26 μg/L) were associated with increased UBC risk, OR = 1.86 (95% CI: 1.25, 2.75), overall and among subjects with low levels of LINE-1%5mC (n = 975), OR = 2.14 (95% CI: 1.39, 3.30), but not associated with UBC risk among subjects’ high levels of LINE-1%5mC (n = 162), interaction P = 0.03. Results suggest a positive association between LINE-1%5mC and THM levels among controls, and LINE-1%5mC status may modify the association between UBC risk and THM exposure. Because reverse causation and chance cannot be ruled out, confirmation studies are warranted.
Human astroviruses (HAstVs) are one of the leading viral agents of acute gastroenteritis. However, there is limited information on HAstVs in China. Here, we describe the molecular characterization of HAstVs in Shandong, China via sewage surveillance. A total of 23 sewage samples were collected from sewage treatment plants in the cities of Jinan and Linyi in 2013. After concentration via adsorption-elution method, 9 samples (39.1%) were positive by reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) for the presence of the 719-nt HAstV nucleotide sequence. Genetic cloning and sequencing were performed on positive PCR products, and 26 HAstV sequences were obtained. Phylogenetic analysis on these sequences revealed 4 genotypes (HAstV-1, -2, -4 and -5), with HAstV-1 and -5 as the most common genotypes in Jinan and Linyi, respectively. Homologous comparison revealed Shandong sequences had relatively less genetic divergence among themselves than with foreign sequences. This study represents the first effort to investigate the genotypes and molecular epidemiology of HAstVs via sewage surveillance in China. The high detection rate in this study reflects that HAstVs circulated at a relatively high frequency in the local population, and demonstrates that environmental surveillance is an effective method in investigating circulating HAstVs.
Naiveembryonic stemcells hold great promise for research and therapeutics as theyhave broad and robust developmental potential. While such cells are readily derived from mouse blastocysts it has not been possible to isolate human equivalents easily 1,2, although humannaivelike cells have been artificially generated (rather than extracted) by coercion of human primed embryonic stem cells by modifying culture conditions2-4 or through transgenicmodification5.Herewe show that a sub-population within cultures of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) manifests key properties of naive state cells.These naive-like cells can be genetically tagged, and are associated with elevated transcription of HERVH, a primate-specific endogenous retrovirus. HERVHelements provide functional binding sites for a combinationof naive pluripotency transcription factors, including LBP9, recently recognized as relevant to naivety inmice6.LBP9-HERVH drivesh ESC-specific alternative and chimaeric transcripts, including pluripotency-modulating long noncoding RNAs. Disruption of LBP9,HERVH and HERVH-derived transcripts compromises self-renewal.These observationsdefine HERVH expression as a hallmark of naive-like hESCs, and establish novel primate-specific transcriptional circuitry regulating pluripotency.
; licensee BioMed Central.Background: In our previous study, parathyroid hormone-like hormone (PTHLH) which encodes parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) was revealed to be up-regulated in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) compared with paired apparently normal surgical margins using microarray method. However, the function and prognostic indicators of PTHLH/PTHrP in OSCC remain obscure. Methods: The mRNA levels of PTHLH and its protein levels were investigated in 9 OSCC cell lines and in 36 paired OSCC specimens by real-time PCR and western blotting. The biological function of PTHLH/PTHrP was investigated using small interfering RNA (siRNA) in 3 OSCC cell lines, and immunohistochemistry was used to estimate the prognostic value of PTHrP in 101 patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), including OSCC and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma. Cell cycle was tested by flow cytometry and cell cycle related genes were investigated by western blotting and immunocytochemistry assay. Results: This study showed that the mRNA and protein levels of PTHLH in 9 OSCC cell lines were much higher than that in normal epithelial cells (P < 0.0001). In 36 paired OSCC tissues, PTHLH mRNA expressions were found higher in 32 OSCC tissues than that of paired apparently normal surgical margins (P = 0.0001). The results revealed that the down-regulation of PTHLH/PTHrP by siRNAs could reduce cell proliferation and inhibit plate and soft agar colony formation as well as affect the cell cycle of OSCC cells. The key proteins related to the cell cycle were changed by anti-PTHLH siRNA. The results showed that cyclin D1 and CDK4 expressions were significantly reduced in the cells transfected with anti-PTHLH siRNA. On the other hand, the expression of p21 was increased. The results also showed that high PTHrP level was associated with poor pathologic differentiation (P = 0.0001) and poor prognosis (P = 0.0003) in patients with HNSCC. Conclusions: This study suggests that PTHLH/PTHrP is up-regulated in OSCCs. Therefore, PTHLH/PTHrP could play a role in the pathogenesis of OSCC by affecting cell proliferation and cell cycle, and the protein levels of PTHrP might serve as a prognostic indicator for evaluating patients with HNSCCs.
Despite considerable efforts, our understanding of the organization of higher order chromatin conformations in single cells and how these relate to chromatin marks remains poor. We have earlier invented the Chromatin In Situ Proximity (ChrISP) technique to determine proximities between chromatin fibers within a single chromosome. Here we used ChrISP to identify chromosome 11-specific hubs that are enriched in the H3K9me2 mark and that project toward the nuclear membrane in finger-like structures. Conversely, chromosome 11-specfic chromatin hubs, visualized by the presence of either H3K9me1 or H3K9me3 marks, are chromosome-wide and largely absent at the nuclear periphery. As the nuclear periphery-specific chromatin hubs were lost in the induced reduction of H3K9me2 levels, they likely represent Large Organization Chromatin in Lysine Methylation (LOCK) domains, previously identified by ChIP-seq analysis. Strikingly, the downregulation of the H3K9me2/3 marks also led to the chromosome-wide compaction of chromosome 11, suggesting a pleiotropic function of these features not recognized before. The ChrISP-mediated visualization of dynamic chromatin states in single cells thus provides an analysis of chromatin structures with a resolution far exceeding that of any other light microscopic technique.
The major feature in the molecular pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis requires maintenance of the activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) phenotype by both proliferation and inhibition of apoptosis. Thus, the induction of activated HSCs apoptosis has been proposed as an antifibrotic treatment strategy. Curcumol has pro-apoptotic activity in a number of cancer cell types. The aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that the interruption of the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K)/nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) signaling pathway by curcumol might induce apoptosis of activated HSCs. Our results indicated that curcumol-induced growth inhibition correlated with apoptosis induction as evidenced by Annexin V staining, and cleavage of caspase-3 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) in HSC-T6. Importantly, we show that the apoptotic effect of curcumol was specific to the activated HSCs (HSC-T6). Suppression of the NF-κB translocation via inhibition of IκB-α phosphorylation by the curcumol led to the inhibition of expression of NF-κB-regulated gene, e.g. Bcl-xL and Bcl-2, in a PI3K-dependent manner, which is upstream of NF-κB activation. Also, curcumol-mediated apoptosis of HSC-T6 were reversed by LY294002 and Bay 11-7082. Taken together, our findings perfectly support the hypothesis and demonstrate that the inhibition of PI3K/NF-κB pathway by curcumol lead to HSC-T6 apoptosis. Thus, our study indicates that curcumol is a potential candidate for further preclinical study aimed at the treatment of liver fibrosis.
Background: Reprogramming cellular gene transcription sustains HTLV-1 viral persistence that ultimately leads to the development of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL). We hypothesized that besides these quantitative transcriptional effects, HTLV-1 qualitatively modifies the pattern of cellular gene expression. Results: Exon expression analysis shows that patients' untransformed and malignant HTLV-1+ CD4+ T-cells exhibit multiple alternate exon usage (AEU) events. These affect either transcriptionally modified or unmodified genes, culminate in ATLL, and unveil new functional pathways involved in cancer and cell cycle. Unsupervised hierarchical clustering of array data permitted to isolate exon expression patterns of 3977 exons that discriminate uninfected, infected, and transformed CD4+ T-cells. Furthermore, untransformed infected CD4+ clones and ATLL samples shared 486 exon modifications distributed in 320 genes, thereby indicating a role of AEUs in HTLV-1 leukemogenesis. Exposing cells to splicing modulators revealed that Sudemycin E reduces cell viability of HTLV-1 transformed cells without affecting primary control CD4+ cells and HTLV-1 negative cell lines, suggesting that the huge excess of AEU might provide news targets for treating ATLL. Conclusions: Taken together, these data reveal that HTLV-1 significantly modifies the structure of cellular transcripts and unmask new putative leukemogenic pathways and possible therapeutic targets.
A recent report warns that DNA extraction kits and other laboratory reagents are considerable sources of contamination in microbiome experiments. The issue of contamination is particularly problematic for samples of low biomass.
Gene transcription produces a wide variety of ribonucleic acid (RNA) species in eukaryotes. Individual types of RNA, such as messenger, structural and regulatory RNA, are known to play distinct roles in the cell. Recently, researchers have identified a large number of RNA-mediated toxicity pathways that play significant pathogenic roles in numerous human disorders. In this article, we describe various common RNA toxicity pathways, namely epigenetic gene silencing, nucleolar stress, nucleocytoplasmic transport, bi-directional gene transcription, repeat-associated non-ATG translation, RNA foci formation and cellular protein sequestration. We emphasize RNA toxicity mechanisms that involve nucleotide repeat expansion, such as those related to polyglutamine (polyQ) disorders and frontotemporal lobar degeneration-amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Children that are exposed to abuse or neglect show abnormal hippocampal function. However, the developmental mechanisms by which early life stress (ELS) impairs normal hippocampal development have not been elucidated. Here we propose that exposure to ELS blunts normal hippocampal growth by inhibiting the availability of ribosomal RNA (rRNA). In support of this hypothesis, we show that the normal mouse hippocampus undergoes a growth-spurt during the second week of life, followed by a gradual decrease in DNA and RNA content that persists into adulthood. This developmental pattern is associated with accelerated ribosomal RNA (rRNA) synthesis during the second week of life, followed by a gradual decline in rRNA levels that continue into adulthood. Levels of DNA methylation at the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) promoter are lower during the second week of life compared to earlier development or adulthood. Exposure to brief daily separation (BDS), a mouse model of early life stress, increased DNA methylation at the ribosomal DNA promoter, decreased rRNA levels, and blunted hippocampal growth during the second week of life. Exposure to acute (3 hrs) maternal separation decreased rRNA and increased DNA methylation at the rDNA proximal promoter, suggesting that exposure to stress early in life can rapidly regulate the availability of rRNA levels in the developing hippocampus. Given the critical role that rRNA plays in supporting normal growth and development, these findings suggest a novel molecular mechanism to explain how stress early in life impairs hippocampus development in the mouse.
Background: Although profiling of RNA in single cells has broadened our understanding of development, cancer biology and mechanisms of disease dissemination, it requires the development of reliable and flexible methods. Here we demonstrate that the EpiStem RNA-Amp™ methodology reproducibly generates microgram amounts of cDNA suitable for RNA-Seq, RT-qPCR arrays and Microarray analysis. Results: Initial experiments compared amplified cDNA generated by three commercial RNA-Amplification protocols (Miltenyi μMACS™ SuperAmp™, NuGEN Ovation® One-Direct System and EpiStem RNA-Amp™) applied to single cell equivalent levels of RNA (25-50 pg) using Affymetrix arrays. The EpiStem RNA-Amp™ kit exhibited the highest sensitivity and was therefore chosen for further testing. A comparison of Affymetrix array data from RNA-Amp™ cDNA generated from single MCF7 and MCF10A cells to reference controls of unamplified cDNA revealed a high degree of concordance. To assess the flexibility of the amplification system single cell RNA-Amp™ cDNA was also analysed using RNA-Seq and high-density qPCR, and showed strong cross-platform correlations. To exemplify the approach we used the system to analyse RNA profiles of small populations of rare cancer initiating cells (CICs) derived from a NSCLC patient-derived xenograft. RNA-Seq analysis was able to identify transcriptional differences in distinct subsets of CIC, with one group potentially enriched for metastasis formation. Pathway analysis revealed that the distinct transcriptional signatures demonstrated in the CIC subpopulations were significantly correlated with published stem-cell and epithelial-mesenchymal transition signatures. Conclusions: The combined results confirm the sensitivity and flexibility of the RNA-Amp™ method and demonstrate the suitability of the approach for identifying clinically relevant signatures in rare, biologically important cell populations.
Salted jellyfish, a traditional food in Asian Countries, is nowadays spreading on the Western markets. In this work, we developed a Pentaplex PCR for the identification of five edible species (Nemopilema nomurai, Rhopilema esculentum, Rhizostoma pulmo, Pelagia noctiluca, and Cotylorhiza tuberculata), which cannot be identified by a mere visual inspection in jellyfish products sold as food. A common degenerated forward primer and five specie-speci fic reverse primers were designed to amplify COI gene regions of different lengths. Another primer pair targeted the 28SrRNA gene and was intended as common positive reaction control. Considering the high level of degradation in the DNA extracted from acidified and salted products, the maximum length of the amplicons was set at 200 bp. The PCR was developed using 66 reference DNA samples. It gave successful amplifications in 85.4% of 48 ready to eat products (REs) and in 60% of 30 classical salted products (CPs) collected on the market.
Background: To investigate the microbial composition of biofilms at inflamed peri-implant and periodontal tissues in the same subject, using 16S rRNA sequencing. Methods: Supra- and submucosal, and supra- and subgingival plaque samples were collected from 7 subjects suffering from diseased peri-implant and periodontal tissues. Bacterial DNA was isolated and 16S rRNA genes were amplified, sequenced and aligned for the identification of bacterial genera. Results: 43734 chimera-depleted, denoised sequences were identified, corresponding to 1 phylum, 8 classes, 10 orders, 44 families and 150 genera. The most abundant families or genera found in supramucosal or supragingival plaque were Streptoccocaceae, Rothia and Porphyromonas. In submucosal plaque, the most abundant family or genera found were Rothia, Streptococcaceae and Porphyromonas on implants. The most abundant subgingival bacteria on teeth were Prevotella, Streptococcaceae, and TG5. The number of sequences found for the genera Tannerella and Aggregatibacter on implants differed significantly between supra- and submucosal locations before multiple testing. The analyses demonstrated no significant differences between microbiomes on implants and teeth in supra- or submucosal and supra- or subgingival biofilms. Conclusion: Diseased peri-implant and periodontal tissues in the same subject share similiar bacterial genera and based on the analysis of taxa on a genus level biofilm compositions may not account for the potentially distinct pathologies at implants or teeth.
. licensee BioMed Central.Background: Sheepgrass (Leymus chinensis) is an important perennial forage grass across the Eurasian Steppe and is adaptable to various environmental conditions, but little is known about its molecular mechanism responding to grazing and BSA deposition. Because it has a large genome, RNA sequencing is expensive and impractical except for the next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology. Results: In this study, NGS technology was employed to characterize de novo the transcriptome of sheepgrass after defoliation and grazing treatments and to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) responding to grazing and BSA deposition. We assembled more than 47 M high-quality reads into 120,426 contigs from seven sequenced libraries. Based on the assembled transcriptome, we detected 2,002 DEGs responding to BSA deposition during grazing. Enrichment analysis of Gene ontology (GO), EuKaryotic Orthologous Groups (KOG) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways revealed that the effects of grazing and BSA deposition involved more apoptosis and cell oxidative changes compared to defoliation. Analysis of DNA fragments, cell oxidative factors and the lengths of leaf scars after grazing provided physiological and morphological evidence that BSA deposition during grazing alters the oxidative and apoptotic status of cells. Conclusions: This research greatly enriches sheepgrass transcriptome resources and grazing-stress-related genes, helping us to better understand the molecular mechanism of grazing in sheepgrass. The grazing-stress-related genes and pathways will be a valuable resource for further gene-phenotype studies.
It has been reported that lidocaine is toxic to various types of cells. And a recent study has confirmed that lidocaine exerts a demethylation effect and regulates the proliferation of human breast cancer cell lines. To recognize a potential anti-tumor effect of lidocaine, we evaluated the DNA demethylation by lidocaine in human breast cancer lines, MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cells, and determined the influence of demethylation on the toxicity to these cells of cisplatin, which is a commonly utilized anti-tumor agent for breast cancer. Results demonstrated that lidocaine promoted a significant global genomic demethylation, and particularly in the promoters of tumor suppressive genes (TSGs), RARβ2 and RASSF1A. Further, the lidocaine treatment increased cisplatin-induced apoptosis and enhanced cisplatin-induced cytotoxicity. The combined treatment with both lidocaine and cisplatin promoted a significantly higher level of MCF-7 cell apoptosis than singular lidocaine or cisplatin treatment. Moreover, the abrogation of RARβ2 or RASSF1A expression inhibited such apoptosis. In conclusion, the present study confirms the demethylation effect of lidocaine in breast cancer cells, and found that the demethylation of RARβ2 and RASSF1A sensitized the cytotoxicity of cisplatin in breast cancer cells.
Background: In addition to gene identification and annotation, repetitive sequence analysis has become an integral part of genome sequencing projects. Identification of repeats is important not only because it improves gene prediction, but also because of the role that repetitive sequences play in determining the structure and evolution of genes and genomes. Several methods using different repeat-finding strategies are available for whole-genome repeat sequence analysis. Four independent approaches were used to identify and characterize the repetitive fraction of the Mycosphaerella graminicola (synonym Zymoseptoria tritici) genome. This ascomycete fungus is a wheat pathogen and its finished genome comprises 21 chromosomes, eight of which can be lost with no obvious effects on fitness so are dispensable. Results: Using a combination of four repeat-finding methods, at least 17% of the M. graminicola genome was estimated to be repetitive. Class I transposable elements, that amplify via an RNA intermediate, account for about 70% of the total repetitive content in the M. graminicola genome. The dispensable chromosomes had a higher percentage of repetitive elements as compared to the core chromosomes. Distribution of repeats across the chromosomes also varied, with at least six chromosomes showing a non-random distribution of repetitive elements. Repeat families showed transition mutations and a CpA → TpA dinucleotide bias, indicating the presence of a repeat-induced point mutation (RIP)-like mechanism in M. graminicola. One gene family and two repeat families specific to subtelomeres also were identified in the M. graminicola genome. A total of 78 putative clusters of nested elements was found in the M. graminicola genome. Several genes with putative roles in pathogenicity were found associated with these nested repeat clusters. This analysis of the transposable element content in the finished M. graminicola genome resulted in a thorough and highly curated database of repetitive sequences. Conclusions: This comprehensive analysis will serve as a scaffold to address additional biological questions regarding the origin and fate of transposable elements in fungi. Future analyses of the distribution of repetitive sequences in M. graminicola also will be able to provide insights into the association of repeats with genes and their potential role in gene and genome evolution.
Background: We have previously shown that the thromboxane (TXA2) receptor agonist, U46619, can directly induce ventricular arrhythmias that were associated with increases in intracellular calcium in cardiomyocytes. Since TXA2 is an inflammatory mediator and induces direct calcium changes in cardiomyocytes, we hypothesized that TXA2 released during ischemia or inflammation could also cause cardiac remodeling. Methods: U46619 (0.1-10 μM) was applied to isolated adult mouse ventricular primary cardiomyocytes, mouse ventricular cardiac muscle strips, and cultured HL-1 cardiomyocytes and markers of hypertrophy and cell death were measured. Results: We found that TXA2 receptors were expressed in ventricular cardiomyocytes and were functional via calcium imaging. U46619 treatment for 24 h did not increase expression of pathological hypertrophy genes (atrial natriuretic peptide, β-myosin heavy chain, skeletal muscle α-actin) and it did not increase protein synthesis. There was also no increase in cardiomyocyte size after 48 h treatment with U46619 as measured by flow cytometry. However, U46619 (0.1-10 μM) caused a concentration-dependent increase in cardiomyocyte death (trypan blue, MTT assays, visual cell counts and TUNEL stain) after 24 h. Treatment of cells with the TXA2 receptor antagonist SQ29548 and inhibitors of the IP3 pathway, gentamicin and 2-APB, eliminated the increase in cell death induced by U46619. Conclusions: Our data suggests that TXA2 does not induce cardiac hypertrophy, but does induce cell death that is mediated in part by IP3 signaling pathways. These findings may provide important therapeutic targets for inflammatory-induced cardiac apoptosis that can lead to heart failure.
Grafting, an old plant propagation practice, is still widely used with fruit trees and in recent decades also with vegetables. Taxonomic proximity is a general prerequisite for successful graft-take and long-term survival of the grafted, composite plant. However, the mechanisms underlying interspecific graft incompatibility are as yet insufficiently understood. Hormonal signals, auxin in particular, are believed to play an important role in the wound healing and vascular regeneration within the graft union zone. Incomplete and convoluted vascular connections impede the vital upward and downward whole plant transfer routes. Long-distance protein, mRNA and small RNA graft-transmissible signals currently emerge as novel mechanisms which regulate nutritional and developmental root/top relations and may play a pivotal role in grafting physiology. Grafting also has significant pathogenic projections. On one hand, stock to scion mechanical contact enables the spread of diseases, even without a complete graft union. But, on the other hand, grafting onto resistant rootstocks serves as a principal tool in the management of fruit tree plagues and vegetable soil-borne diseases. The ‘graft hybrid’ historic controversy has not yet been resolved. Recent evidence suggests that epigenetic modification of DNA-methylation patterns may account for certain graft-transformation phenomena. Root grafting is a wide spread natural phenomenon; both intraspecific and interspecific root grafts have been recorded. Root grafts have an evolutionary role in the survival of storm-hit forest stands as well as in the spread of devastating diseases. A more fundamental evolutionary role is hinted by recent findings that demonstrate plastid and nuclear genome transfer between distinct Nicotiana species in the graft union zone, within a tissue culture system. This has led to the formation of alloploid cells that, under laboratory conditions, gave rise to a novel, alloploid Nicotiana species, indicating that natural grafts may play a role in plant speciation, under certain circumstances.
Background: The mosquito species Aedes aegypti is the primary vector of many arboviral diseases, including dengue and yellow fevers, that are responsible for a large worldwide health burden. The biological rhythms of mosquitoes regulate many of the physiological processes and behaviors that influence the transmission of these diseases. For insight into the molecular basis of biological rhythms, diel and circadian gene expression profiling has been carried out for many species. To bring these resources to Aedes aegypti researchers, we used microarray technology to carry out a genome wide assessment of gene expression during the 24 hour light/dark (LD) cycle and during constant darkness (DD). The purpose of this report is to describe the methods, the validation of the results, and the organization of this database resource. Description: The Aedes aegypti Circadian Database is a publicly accessible database that can be searched via a text-based query to visualize 44 hour temporal expression patterns of a given gene in Ae. aegypti heads under diel (observed under a 12 hour/12 hour LD cycle) and circadian (observed under DD) conditions. Profiles of gene expression under these conditions were assayed by Nimblegen 12-plex microarrays and rhythmicity was objectively assessed by the JTK_CYCLE algorithm. The output of the search is a graphical representation of the expression data along with computed period length, the time-of-day of gene expression peaks, and statistical determination for rhythmicity. Conclusion: Our results show that at least 7.9% of the gene set present in the Aedes aegypti head are rhythmic under LD conditions and 6.7% can be considered circadian, oscillating under constant dark conditions. We present these results in the Aedes aegypti Circadian Database through Bioclock, a public website hosted by the University of Notre Dame at http://www.nd.edu/~bioclock/. This website allows searchable browsing of this quantitative gene expression information. The visualization allows for gene-by-gene comparison of transcript expression under both diel and circadian conditions, and the results are presented graphically in a plot profile of gene expression. The Ae. aegypti Circadian Database provides a community resource for observing diel and circadian fluctuations in gene expression across the Ae. aegypti genome.
The ion atmosphere around nucleic acids is an integral part of their solvated structure. However, detailed aspects of the ionic distribution are difficult to probe experimentally, and comparative studies for different structures of the same sequence are almost non-existent. Here, we have used large-scale molecular dynamics simulations to perform a comparative study of the ion distribution around (5' - CGCGCGCGCGCG-3')<inf>2</inf> dodecamers in solution in B-DNA, A-RNA, Z-DNA and Z-RNA forms. The CG sequence is very sensitive to ionic strength and it allows the comparison with the rare but important lefthanded forms. The ions investigated include Na<sup>+</sup>, K<sup>+</sup> and Mg<sup>2+</sup>, with various concentrations of their chloride salts. Our results quantitatively describe the characteristics of the ionic distributions for different structures at varying ionic strengths, tracing these differences to nucleic acid structure and ion type. Several binding pockets with rather long ion residence times are described, both for the monovalent ions and for the hexahydrated Mg[(H<inf>2</inf>O)<inf>6</inf>]<sup>2+</sup> ion. The conformations of these binding pockets include direct binding through desolvated ion bridges in the GpC steps in B-DNA and A-RNA; direct binding to backbone oxygens; binding of Mg[(H<inf>2</inf>O)<inf>6</inf>]<sup>2+</sup> to distant phosphates, resulting in acute bending of A-RNA; tight 'ion traps' in Z-RNA between C-O2 and the C-O2' atoms in GpC steps; and others.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research.Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) are known to play important functional roles in the cell. However, their identification and recognition in genomic sequences remains challenging. In silicomethods, such as classification tools, offer a fast and reliable way for such screening and multiple classifiers have already been developed to predict well-defined subfamilies of RNA. So far, however, out of all the ncRNAs, only tRNA, miRNA and snoRNA can be predicted with a satisfying sensitivity and specificity. We here present ptRNApred, a tool to detect and classify subclasses of non-coding RNA that are involved in the regulation of post-transcriptional modifications or DNA replication, which we here call post-transcriptional RNA (ptRNA). It (i) detects RNA sequences coding for post-transcriptional RNA from the genomic sequence with an overall sensitivity of 91% and a specificity of 94% and (ii) predicts ptRNA-subclasses that exist in eukaryotes: snRNA, snoRNA, RNase P, RNase MRP, Y RNA or telomerase RNA. AVAILABILITY: The ptRNApred software is open for public use on http://www.ptrnapred.org/.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research.Transcripts possessing a 5'-triphosphate are a hallmark of viral transcription and can trigger the host antiviral response. 5'-triphosphates are also found on common host transcripts transcribed by RNA polymerase III (RNAP III), yet how these transcripts remain non-immunostimulatory is incompletely understood. Most microRNAs (miRNAs) are 5'-monophosphorylated as a result of sequential endonucleolytic processing by Drosha and Dicer from longer RNA polymerase II (RNAP II)-transcribed primary transcripts. In contrast, bovine leukemia virus (BLV) expresses subgenomic RNAP III transcripts that give rise to miRNAs independent of Drosha processing. Here, we demonstrate that each BLV pre-miRNA is directly transcribed by RNAP III from individual, compact RNAP III type II genes. Thus, similar to manmade RNAP III-generated short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs), the BLV pre-miRNAs are initially 5'-triphosphorylated. Nonetheless, the derivative 5p miRNAs and shRNA-generated 5p small RNAs (sRNAs) possess a 5'-monophosphate. Our enzymatic characterization and small RNA sequencing data demonstrate that BLV 5p miRNAs are coterminal with 5'-triphosphorylated miRNA precursors (pre-miRNAs). Thus, these results identify a 5'-triphosphatase activity that is involved in the biogenesis of BLV miRNAs and shRNA-generated sRNAs. This work advances our understanding of retroviral miRNA and shRNA biogenesis and may have implications regarding the immunostimulatory capacity of RNAP III transcripts.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research. Alkylative damage to DNA can be induced by environmental chemicals, endogenous metabolites and some commonly prescribed chemotherapeutic agents. The regioisomeric N3-, O<sup>2</sup>- and O<sup>4</sup>-ethylthymidine (N3-, O<sup>2</sup>- and O<sup>4</sup>-EtdT, respectively) represent an important class of ethylated DNA lesions. Using nonreplicative double-stranded vectors containing an N3-EtdT, O<sup>2</sup>-EtdT or O<sup>4</sup>-EtdT at a defined site in the template strand, herein we examined the effects of these lesions on DNA transcription mediated by single-subunit T7 RNA polymerase or multisubunit human RNA polymerase II in vitro and in human cells. We found that O<sup>4</sup>-EtdT is highly mutagenic and exclusively induces the misincorporation of guanine opposite the lesion, whereasN3-EtdT and O<sup>2</sup>-EtdT display promiscuous miscoding properties during transcription. In addition, N3-EtdT and O<sup>2</sup>-EtdT were found to inhibit strongly DNA transcription in vitro and in certain human cells. Moreover, N3-EtdT, but not O<sup>2</sup>-EtdT or O<sup>4</sup>-EtdT, is an efficient substrate for transcription-coupled nucleotide excision repair. These findings provide new important insights into how these alkylated DNA lesions compromise the flow of genetic information, which may help to understand the risk of these lesions in living cells.
Natural tetracyclic diterpenoid aphidicolin is a potent and specific inhibitor of B-family DNA polymerases, haltering replication and possessing a strong antimitotic activity in human cancer cell lines. Clinical trials revealed limitations of aphidicolin as an antitumor drug because of its low solubility and fast clearance from human plasma. The absence of structural information hampered the improvement of aphidicolinlike inhibitors: more than 50 modifications have been generated so far, but all have lost the inhibitory and antitumor properties. Here we report the crystal structure of the catalytic core of human DNA polymerase α (Pol α) in the ternary complex with an RNA-primed DNA template and aphidicolin. The inhibitor blocks binding of dCTP by docking at the Pol α active site and by rotating the template guanine. The structure provides a plausible mechanism for the selectivity of aphidicolin incorporation opposite template guanine and explains why previous modifications of aphidicolin failed to improve its affinity for Pol α. With new structural information, aphidicolin becomes an attractive lead compound for the design of novel derivatives with enhanced inhibitory properties for B-family DNA polymerases.
Stress granule (SG) formation is a primary mechanism through which gene expression is rapidly modulated when the eukaryotic cell undergoes cellular stresses (including heat, oxidative, viral infection, starvation). In particular, the sequestration of specifically targeted translationally stalled mRNAs into SGs limits the expression of a subset of genes, but allows the expression of heatshock proteins that have a protective effect in the cell. The importance of SGs is seen in several disease states in which SG function is disrupted. Fundamental to SG formation are the T cell restricted intracellular antigen (TIA) proteins (TIA-1 and TIA-1 related protein (TIAR)), that both directly bind to target RNA and self-associate to seed the formation of SGs. Here a summary is provided of the current understanding of the way in which TIA proteins target specific mRNA, and how TIA self-association is triggered under conditions of cellular stress.
Sporotrichosis and cutaneous leishmaniasis are skin infections with similar clinical manifestations but different treatment methods. The present study aimed to evaluate qPCR and conventional PCR for differential detection of the etiological agents of both infections in multiplex format. Assays were designed using two sets of reported primers: SS1/SS2, designed on the 18S ribosomal RNA gene from Sporothrix spp., and JW11/JW12, designed on the kinetoplast DNA (kDNA) minicircles of Leishmania spp. qPCR detected 200 fg of DNA per reaction for both Sporothrix and Leishmania. Melting curve analysis revealed two distinctive Tm peaks for Sporothrix spp. (85.5°C), and Leishmania spp. (82.6°C). A detection limit of 20 pg was determined for the diagnosis of both with conventional PCR. No other clinically important organisms were detected by either PCR or qPCR. However, a Blast analysis on GenBank databases, using as query the sequence of the PCR fragment obtained with primers SS1/SS2, showed 100% identity to environmental fungi of the Ophiostomales order. Lower percentages of identity (≤80%), with mismatches at primers' sequence regions were obtained for other environmental or clinically important fungi. Proper handling of clinical samples is required to avoid false negatives due to contamination with environmental fungi of the Ophiostomales order.
The seven human sirtuins are a family of ubiquitously expressed and evolutionarily conserved NAD+-dependent deacylases/mono-ADP ribosyltransferases that regulate numerous cellular and organismal functions, including metabolism, cell cycle, and longevity. Here, we report the discovery that all seven sirtuins have broad-range antiviral properties. We demonstrate that small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated knockdown of individual sirtuins and drug-mediated inhibition of sirtuin enzymatic activity increase the production of virus progeny in infected human cells. This impact on virus growth is observed for both DNA and RNA viruses. Importantly, sirtuin-activating drugs inhibit the replication of diverse viruses, as we demonstrate for human cytomegalovirus, a slowly replicating DNA virus, and influenza A (H1N1) virus, an RNA virus that multiplies rapidly. Furthermore, sirtuin defense functions are evolutionarily conserved, since CobB, the sirtuin homologue in Escherichia coli, protects against bacteriophages. Altogether, our findings establish sirtuins as broad-spectrum and evolutionarily conserved components of the immune defense system, providing a framework for elucidating a new set of host cell defense mechanisms and developing sirtuin modulators with antiviral activity. IMPORTANCE We live in a sea of viruses, some of which are human pathogens. These pathogenic viruses exhibit numerous differences: DNA or RNA genomes, enveloped or naked virions, nuclear or cytoplasmic replication, diverse disease symptoms, etc. Most antiviral drugs target specific viral proteins. Consequently, they often work for only one virus, and their efficacy can be compromised by the rapid evolution of resistant variants. There is a need for the identification of host proteins with broadspectrum antiviral functions, which provide effective targets for therapeutic treatments that limit the evolution of viral resistance. Here, we report that sirtuins present such an opportunity for the development of broad-spectrum antiviral treatments, since our findings highlight these enzymes as ancient defense factors that protect against a variety of viral pathogens.
The proteins associated with gene regulation are often shared between multiple pathways simultaneously. By way of contrast, models in regulatory biology often assume these pathways act independently. We demonstrate a framework for calculating the change in gene expression for the interacting case by decoupling repressor occupancy across the cell from the gene of interest by way of a chemical potential. The details of the interacting regulatory architecture are encompassed in an effective concentration, and thus, a single scaling function describes a collection of gene expression data from diverse regulatory situations and collapses it onto a single master curve.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research. The stress-sensitive restriction-modification (RM) system CglI from Corynebacterium glutamicum and the homologous NgoAVII RM system from Neisseria gonorrhoeae FA1090 are composed of three genes: a DNA methyltransferase (M.CglI and M.NgoAVII), a putative restriction endonuclease (R.CglI and R.NgoAVII, or R-proteins) and a predicted DEAD-family helicase/ATPase (N.CglI and N.NgoAVII or N-proteins). Here we report a biochemical characterization of the R- and N-proteins. Size-exclusion chromatography and SAXS experiments reveal that the isolated R.CglI, R.NgoAVII and N.CglI proteins form homodimers, while N.NgoAVII is a monomer in solution. Moreover, the R.CglI and N.CglI proteins assemble in a complex with R<inf>2</inf>N<inf>2</inf> stoichiometry. Next, we show that N-proteins have ATPase activity that is dependent on double-stranded DNA and is stimulated by the R-proteins. Functional ATPase activity and extensive ATP hydrolysis (∼170 ATP/s/monomer) are required for site-specific DNA cleavage by R-proteins. We show that ATP-dependent DNA cleavage by R-proteins occurs at fixed positions (6-7 nucleotides) downstream of the asymmetric recognition sequence 5'-GCCGC-3'. Despite similarities to both Type I and II restriction endonucleases, the CglI and NgoAVII enzymes may employ a unique catalytic mechanism for DNA cleavage.
Members of the pentatricopeptide repeat domain (PPR) protein family bind RNA and are important for post-transcriptional control of organelle gene expression in unicellular eukaryotes, metazoans and plants. They also have a role in human pathology, as mutations in the leucine-rich PPR-containing (LRPPRC) genecause severe neurodegeneration. We have previously shown that the mammalian LRPPRC protein and its Drosophila melanogaster homolog DmLRPPRC1 (also known as bicoid stability factor) are necessary for mitochondrial translation by controlling stability and polyadenylation of mRNAs. We here report characterization of DmLRPPRC2, a second fruit fly homolog of LRPPRC, and show that it has a predominant mitochondrial localization and interacts with a stem-loop interacting RNA binding protein (DmSLIRP2). Ubiquitous downregulation of DmLrpprc2expression causes respiratory chain dysfunction, developmental delay and shortened lifespan. Unexpectedly, decreased DmLRPPRC2 expression does not globally affect steady-state levels or polyadenylation of mitochondrial transcripts. However, some mitochondrial transcripts abnormally associate with the mitochondrial ribosomes and some products are dramatically overproduced and other ones decreased, which, in turn, results in severe deficiency of respiratory chain complexes. The function of DmLRPPRC2 thus seems to be to ensure that mitochondrial transcripts are presented to the mitochondrial ribosomes in an orderly fashion to avoid poorly coordinated translation.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease. Fused in sarcoma (FUS) is a DNA/RNA binding protein and mutations in FUS cause a subset of familial ALS. Most ALS mutations are clustered in the C-terminal nuclear localization sequence of FUS and consequently lead to the accumulation of protein inclusions in the cytoplasm. It remains debatable whether loss of FUS normal function in the nucleus or gain of toxic function in the cytoplasm plays a more critical role in the ALS etiology. Moreover, the physiological function of FUS in the nucleus remains to be fully understood. In this study, we found that a significant portion of nuclear FUS was bound to active chromatin and that the ALS mutations dramatically decreased FUS chromatin binding ability. Functionally, the chromatin binding is required for FUS transcription activation, but not for alternative splicing regulation. The N-terminal QGSY (glutamine-glycine-serine-tyrosine)-rich region (amino acids 1-164) mediates FUS self-assembly in the nucleus of mammalian cells and the self-assembly is essential for its chromatin binding and transcription activation. In addition, RNA binding is also required for FUS self-assembly and chromatin binding. Together, our results suggest a functional assembly of FUS in the nucleus under physiological conditions, which is different from the cytoplasmic inclusions. The ALS mutations can cause loss of function in the nucleus by disrupting this assembly and chromatin binding.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research.Here we conducted an integrative multi-omics analysis to understand how cancers harbor various types of aberrations at the genomic, epigenomic and transcriptional levels. In order to elucidate biological relevance of the aberrations and their mutual relations, we performed whole-genome sequencing, RNA-Seq, bisulfite sequencing and ChIP-Seq of 26 lung adenocarcinoma cell lines. The collected multi-omics data allowed us to associate an average of 536 coding mutations and 13,573 mutations in promoter or enhancer regions with aberrant transcriptional regulations. We detected the 385 splice site mutations and 552 chromosomal rearrangements, representative cases of which were validated to cause aberrant transcripts. Averages of 61, 217, 3687 and 3112mutations are located in the regulatory regions which showed differential DNA methylation, H3K4me3, H3K4me1 and H3K27ac marks, respectively. We detected distinct patterns of aberrations in transcriptional regulations depending on genes. We found that the irregular histone marks were characteristic to EGFR and CDKN1A, while a large genomic deletion and hyper-DNA methylation were most frequent for CDKN2A. We also used the multi-omics data to classify the cell lines regarding their hallmarks of carcinogenesis. Our datasets should provide a valuable foundation for biological interpretations of interlaced genomic and epigenomic aberrations.
To be effective, the adaptive immune response requires a large repertoire of antigen receptors, which are generated through V(D)J recombination in lymphoid precursors. These precursors must be protected from DNA damage-induced cell death, however, because V(D)J recombination generates double-strand breaks and may activate p53. Here we show that the BTB/POZ domain protein Miz-1 restricts p53-dependent induction of apoptosis in both pro-B and DN3a pre-T cells that actively rearrange antigen receptor genes. Miz-1 exerts this function by directly activating the gene for ribosomal protein L22 (Rpl22), which binds to p53 mRNA and negatively regulates its translation. This mechanism limits p53 expression levels and thus contains its apoptosis-inducing functions in lymphocytes, precisely at differentiation stages in which V(D)J recombination occurs.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research. The substitution-inert polynuclear platinum(II) complex (PPC) series, [{trans-Pt(NH<inf>3</inf>)<inf>2</inf>(NH<inf>2</inf>(CH<inf>2</inf>)<inf>n</inf>NH<inf>3</inf>)}<inf>2</inf>-μ-(trans-Pt(NH<inf>3</inf>)<inf>2</inf>(NH<inf>2</inf>(CH<inf>2</inf>)<inf>n</inf>NH<inf>2</inf>)<inf>2</inf>}](NO<inf>3</inf>)8, where n = 5 (AH78P), 6 (AH78 TriplatinNC) and 7 (AH78H), are potent non-covalent DNA binding agents where nucleic acid recognition is achieved through use of the 'phosphate clamp' where the square-planar tetraam(m)ine Pt(II) coordination units all form bidentate N-O-N complexes through hydrogen bonding with phosphate oxygens. The modular nature of PPC-DNA interactions results in high affinity for calf thymus DNA (K<inf>app</inf> ∼5 × 10<sup>7</sup> M<sup>-1</sup>). The phosphate clamp-DNA interactions result in condensation of superhelical and B-DNA, displacement of intercalated ethidium bromide and facilitate cooperative binding of Hoechst 33258 at the minor groove. The effect of linker chain length on DNA conformational changes was examined and the pentane-bridged complex, AH78P, was optimal for condensing DNA with results in the nanomolar region. Analysis of binding affinity and conformational changes for sequence-specific oligonucleotides by ITC, dialysis, ICP-MS, CD and 2D-<sup>1</sup>H NMR experiments indicate that two limiting modes of phosphate clamp binding can be distinguished through their conformational changes and strongly suggest that DNA condensation is driven by minorgroove spanning. Triplatin-DNA binding prevents endonuclease activity by type II restriction enzymes BamHI, EcoRI and SalI, and inhibition was confirmed through the development of an on-chip microfluidic protocol.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research.In mammals, RNA interference is primarily a posttranscriptional mechanism. Evidence has accumulated for additional role in transcriptional gene silencing (TGS) but the question for a good paradigm for small interfering antigene RNA (agRNA)-induced chromatin modification remains unanswered. Here, we show that SETDB1, a histone H3-lysine 9 (H3K9)-specific methyltransferase, cooperates with Argonaute-2 (AGO2) and plays an essential role in agRNA-induced TGS. The androgen receptor (AR) gene was transcriptionally silenced by agRNA targeted to its promoter, and we show that this repression was mitigated by knockdown of SETDB1 or AGO2. Chromatin immunoprecipitation demonstrated that agRNA-driven AGO2 was first targeted to the AR promoter, followed by SETDB1. SIN3A and HDAC1/2, the components of the SIN3-HDAC complex, immunoprecipitated with SETDB1, and localized at the agRNA-targeted promoter. Agreeing with the presence of SETDB1, trimethyl-H3K9 was enriched in the AR promoter. Both EZH2 and trimethyl-H3K27 were also present in the targeted locus; accordingly, EZH2 immunoprecipitated with SETDB1. DNA methylation level was not significantly changed, suggesting the absence of de novo methylating activity in agRNA-induced AR promoter. Our results demonstrate that SETDB1, together with AGO2, plays an essential role in TGS through recruiting chromatin remodeler and/or other modifiers, consequently creating a repressive chromatin milieu at the targeted promoter.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research. LEF/TCFs direct the final step in Wnt/β-catenin signalling by recruiting β-catenin to genes for activation of transcription. Ancient, non-vertebrate TCFs contain two DNA binding domains, a High Mobility Group box for recognition of the Wnt Response Element (WRE; 5'-CTTTGWWS-3') and the C-clamp domain for recognition of the GC-rich Helper motif (5'-RCCGCC-3'). Two vertebrate TCFs (TCF-1/TCF7 and TCF-4/TCF7L2) use the C-clamp as an alternatively spliced domain to regulate cell-cycle progression, but how the C-clamp influences TCF binding and activity genome-wide is not known. Here, we used a doxycycline inducible system with ChIP-seq to assess how the C-clamp influences human TCF1 binding genome-wide. Metabolic pulse-labeling of nascent RNA with 4'Thiouridine was used with RNAseq to connect binding to the Wnt transcriptome. We find that the C-clamp enables targeting to a greater number of gene loci for stronger occupancy and transcription regulation. The C-clamp uses Helper sites concurrently with WREs for gene targeting, but it also targets TCF1 to sites that do not have readily identifiable canonical WREs. The coupled ChIPseq/4'Thiouridine-seq analysis identified new Wnt target genes, including additional regulators of cell proliferation. Thus, C-clamp containing isoforms of TCFs are potent transcriptional regulators with an expanded transcriptome directed by C-clamp-Helper site interactions.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research.Rapid development of next generation sequencing technology has enabled the identification of genomic alterations from short sequencing reads. There are a number of software pipelines available for calling single nucleotide variants from genomic DNA but, no comprehensive pipelines to identify, annotate and prioritize expressed SNVs (eSNVs) from non-directional paired-end RNA-Seq data. We have developed the eSNV-Detect, a novel computational system, which utilizes data from multiple aligners to call, even at low read depths, and rank variants from RNA-Seq. Multi-platform comparisons with the eSNV-Detect variant candidates were performed. The method was first applied to RNA-Seq from a lymphoblastoid cell-line, achieving 99.7% precision and 91.0% sensitivity in the expressed SNPs for the matching HumanOmni2.5 BeadChip data. Comparison of RNA-Seq eSNV candidates from 25 ER+ breast tumors from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) project with whole exome coding data showed 90.6-96.8% precision and 91.6-95.7% sensitivity. Contrasting single-cell mRNA-Seq variants with matching traditional multicellular RNA-Seq data for the MD-MB231 breast cancer cell-line delineated variant heterogeneity among the single-cells. Further, Sanger sequencing validation was performed for an ER+ breast tumor with paired normal adjacent tissue validating 29 out of 31 candidate eSNVs. The source code and user manuals of the eSNV-Detect pipeline for Sun Grid Engine and virtual machine are available at http://bioinformaticstools.mayo.edu/research/esnv-detect/.
Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic Acids Research.In the liver Wnt-signaling contributes to the metabolic fate of hepatocytes, but the precise role of the TCF7L2 in this process is unknown. We employed a temporal RNA-Seq approach to examine gene expression 3.96 h following Tcf7l2 silencing in rat hepatoma cells, and combined this with ChIP-Seq to investigate mechanisms of target gene regulation by TCF7L2. Silencing Tcf7l2 led to a time-dependent appearance of 406 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including key regulators of cellular growth and differentiation, and amino acid, lipid and glucose metabolism. Direct regulation of 149 DEGs was suggested by strong proximal TCF7L2 binding (peak proximity score > 10) and early mRNA expression changes (≤18 h). Indirect gene regulation by TCF7L2 likely occurred via alternate transcription factors, including Hnf4a, Foxo1, Cited2, Myc and Lef1, which were differentially expressed following Tcf7l2 knockdown. Tcf7l2-silencing enhanced the expression and chromatin occupancy of HNF4α, and co-siRNA experiments revealed that HNF4α was required for the regulation of a subset of metabolic genes by TCF7L2, particularly those involved in lipid and amino-acid metabolism. Our findings suggest TCF7L2 is an important regulator of the hepatic phenotype, and highlight novel mechanisms of gene regulation by TCF7L2 that involve interplay between multiple hepatic transcriptional pathways.
Wheat hybrid necrosis is an interesting genetic phenomenon that is found frequently and results in gradual death or loss of productivity of wheat. However, the molecular basis and mechanisms of this genetic phenomenon are still not well understood. In this study, the transcriptomes of wheat hybrid necrosis F1 and its parents (Neimai 8 and II469) were investigated using digital gene expression (DGE). A total of 1300 differentially expressed genes were identified, indicating that the response to hybrid necrosis in wheat is complicated. The assignments of the annotated genes based on Gene Ontology (GO) revealed that most of the up-regulated genes belong to “universal stress related”, “DNA/RNA binding”, “protein degradation” functional groups, while the down-regulated genes belong to “carbohydrate metabolism” and “translation regulation” functional groups. These findings suggest that these pathways were affected by hybrid necrosis. Our results provide preliminarily new insight into the underlying molecular mechanisms of hybrid necrosis and will help to identify important candidate genes involved in wheat hybrid necrosis.
Mongolian gerbils (Meriones unguiculatus) are widely used as animal models for a variety of infectious diseases. However, immunological reagents such as cytokines have not been characterized. Two heterohybridomas, D9(E6)C2B3 and D9(E4), obtained by fusion of gerbil splenocytes with mouse myeloma cells (P3-X63-Ag8.653), expressed gerbil CD3G mRNA. These cells were suggested to be T cell heterohybridomas. They also expressed gerbil IL6 [D9(E6)C2B3] and TGFB [D9(E4) and D9(E6)C2B3] mRNAs. The addition of conditioned medium (CM) obtained from the culture of D9(E6)C2B3 significantly enhanced antibody secretion and expression of gerbil Cγ1 and Cε IGHC mRNAs in the B11D2(C2) heterohybridoma, which secretes gerbil IgG1. However, the addition of CM from both heterohybridomas did not improve in proliferation of B11D2(C2) cells. These results indicate that CM from D9(E6)C2B3 improved the culture of gerbil–mouse heterohybridomas, possibly by secreting gerbil IL6.
Inactivating mutations in chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 7 (CHD7) cause CHARGE syndrome, a severe multiorgan system disorder of which Isolated gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) deficiency (IGD) is a minor feature. Recent reports have described predominantly missense CHD7 alleles in IGD patients, but it is unclear if these alleles are relevant to causality or overall genetic burden of Kallmann syndrome (KS) and normosmic form of IGD. To address this question, we sequenced CHD7 in 783 well-phenotyped IGD patients lacking full CHARGE features; we identified nonsynonymous rare sequence variants in 5.2% of the IGD cohort (73% missense and 27% splice variants). Functional analyses in zebrafish using a surrogate otolith assay of a representative set of these CHD7 alleles showed that rare sequence variants observed in controls showed no altered function. In contrast, 75% of the IGD-associated alleles were deleterious and resulted in both KS and normosmic IGD. In two families, pathogenic mutations in CHD7 coexisted with mutations in other known IGD genes. Taken together, our data suggest that rare deleterious CHD7 alleles contribute to the mutational burden of patients with both KS and normosmic forms of IGD in the absence of full CHARGE syndrome. These findings (i) implicate a unique role or preferential sensitivity for CHD7 in the ontogeny of GnRH neurons, (ii) reiterate the emerging genetic complexity of this family of IGD disorders, and (iii) demonstrate how the coordinated use of well-phenotyped cohorts, families, and functional studies can inform genetic architecture and provide insights into the developmental biology of cellular systems.
